<h1>NOTMUCH-EMACS-MUA(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-emacs-mua - send mail with notmuch and emacs
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>emacs-mua</b> [options ...] [&lt;to-address&gt; ... | &lt;mailto-url&gt;]
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Start  composing  an  email  in the Notmuch Emacs UI with the specified
       subject, recipients, and message body, or mailto: URL.

       Supported options for <b>emacs-mua</b> include

       <b>-h,</b> <b>--help</b>
              Display help.

       <b>-s,</b> <b>--subject=&lt;subject&gt;</b>
              Specify the subject of the message.

       <b>--to=&lt;to-address&gt;</b>
              Specify a recipient (To).

       <b>-c,</b> <b>--cc=&lt;cc-address&gt;</b>
              Specify a carbon-copy (Cc) recipient.

       <b>-b,</b> <b>--bcc=&lt;bcc-address&gt;</b>
              Specify a blind-carbon-copy (Bcc) recipient.

       <b>-i,</b> <b>--body=&lt;file&gt;</b>
              Specify a file to include into the body of the message.

       <b>--hello</b>
              Go to the Notmuch hello screen instead of the  message  composi‐
              tion window if no message composition parameters are given.

       <b>--no-window-system</b>
              Even if a window system is available, use the current terminal.

       <b>--client</b>
              Use <b>emacsclient</b>, rather than <b>emacs</b>. For <b>emacsclient</b> to work, you
              need an already running Emacs with a server, or use  <b>--auto-dae-</b>
              <b>mon</b>.

       <b>--auto-daemon</b>
              Automatically start Emacs in daemon mode, if the Emacs server is
              not running. Applicable with <b>--client</b>. Implies <b>--create-frame</b>.

       <b>--create-frame</b>
              Create a new frame instead of trying to use  the  current  Emacs
              frame.  Applicable  with  <b>--client</b>.  This  will be required when
              Emacs is running (or automatically started  with  <b>--auto-daemon</b>)
              in daemon mode.

       <b>--print</b>
              Output the resulting elisp to stdout instead of evaluating it.

       The  supported positional parameters and short options are a compatible
       subset of the <b>mutt</b> MUA command-line options. The options and positional
       parameters  modifying  the  message  can&apos;t be combined with the mailto:
       URL.

       Options may be specified multiple times.
</pre>

<h2>ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES</h2>
<pre>
       <b>EMACS</b>  Name of emacs command to invoke. Defaults to &quot;emacs&quot;.

       <b>EMACSCLIENT</b>
              Name of  emacsclient  command  to  invoke.  Defaults  to  &quot;emac‐
              sclient&quot;.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1), <b>emacsclient</b>(1), <b>mutt</b>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2018, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.26</h2>
