<h1>NOTMUCH-HOOKS(5)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-hooks - hooks for notmuch
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       $DATABASEDIR/.notmuch/hooks/*
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Hooks  are  scripts (or arbitrary executables or symlinks to such) that
       notmuch invokes before and after certain actions. These scripts  reside
       in  the .notmuch/hooks directory within the database directory and must
       have executable permissions.

       The currently available hooks are described below.

       <b>pre-new</b>
              This hook is invoked by  the  <b>new</b>  command  before  scanning  or
              importing  new  messages  into  the database. If this hook exits
              with a non-zero status, notmuch will abort further processing of
              the <b>new</b> command.

              Typically  this hook is used for fetching or delivering new mail
              to be imported into the database.

       <b>post-new</b>
              This hook is invoked by the <b>new</b> command after new messages  have
              been  imported  into  the  database  and  initial tags have been
              applied. The hook will not be run if there have been any  errors
              during the scan or import.

              Typically  this  hook  is used to perform additional query-based
              tagging on the imported messages.

       <b>post-insert</b>
              This hook is invoked by the <b>insert</b> command after the message has
              been  delivered,  added  to  the database, and initial tags have
              been applied. The hook will not be run if there  have  been  any
              errors during the message delivery; what is regarded as success‐
              ful delivery depends on the <b>--keep</b> option.

              Typically this hook is used to  perform  additional  query-based
              tagging on the delivered messages.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>much-insert</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>notmuch-new</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7),   <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>much-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2019, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.29</h2>
