<h1>NOTMUCH-RESTORE(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-restore  -  restores  the tags from the given file (see notmuch
       dump)
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b>    <b>restore</b>    [--accumulate]    [--format=(auto|batch-tag|sup)]
       [--input=&lt;<u>filename</u>&gt;]
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Restores the tags from the given file (see <b>notmuch</b> <b>dump</b>).

       The input is read from the given filename, if any, or from stdin.

       Supported options for <b>restore</b> include

       <b>--accumulate</b>
              The  union  of  the existing and new tags is applied, instead of
              replacing each message&apos;s tags as they are read in from the  dump
              file.

       <b>--format=(sup|batch-tag|auto)</b>
              Notmuch  restore supports two plain text dump formats, with each
              line specifying a message-id and a set of tags. For  details  of
              the actual formats, see <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1).

              <b>sup</b>    The  <b>sup</b>  dump  file  format is specifically chosen to be
                     compatible with the format of files produced by sup-dump.
                     So if you&apos;ve previously been using sup for mail, then the
                     <b>notmuch</b> <b>restore</b> command provides you a way to import  all
                     of your tags (or labels as sup calls them).

              <b>batch-tag</b>
                     The  <b>batch-tag</b>  dump  format  is  intended to more robust
                     against malformed message-ids and tags containing  white‐
                     space or non-<b>ascii</b>(7) characters. See <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1) for
                     details on this format.

                     <b>notmuch</b> <b>restore</b> updates the maildir  flags  according  to
                     tag  changes  if the <b>maildir.synchronize</b>_<b>flags</b> configura‐
                     tion  option  is  enabled.  See   <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1)   for
                     details.

              <b>auto</b>   This  option (the default) tries to guess the format from
                     the input. For correctly formed input in either supported
                     format,  this  heuristic,  based  the fact that batch-tag
                     format contains no parentheses, should be accurate.

       <b>--include=(config|properties|tags)</b>
              Control what kind of metadata is restored.

              <b>config</b> Restore configuration data to the database. Each configu‐
                     ration  line starts with &quot;#@ &quot;, followed by a space sepa‐
                     rated key-value pair.  Both key and value are hex encoded
                     if needed.

              <b>properties</b>
                     Restore  per-message  (key,value)  metadata.   Each  line
                     starts with &quot;#= &quot;, followed by a message id, and a  space
                     separated  list of key=value pairs.  Ids, keys and values
                     are hex encoded if needed.  See <a href='../notmuch-properties-7/'>notmuch-properties</a>(7) for
                     more details.

              <b>tags</b>   Restore  per-message  metadata,  namely  tags. See <u>format</u>
                     above for more details.

              The default is to restore  all  available  types  of  data.  The
              option can be specified multiple times to select some subset.

       <b>--input=&lt;filename&gt;</b>
              Read input from given file instead of stdin.
</pre>

<h2>GZIPPED INPUT</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b>  <b>restore</b> will detect if the input is compressed in <b>gzip</b>(1) for‐
       mat and automatically decompress it while reading. This detection  does
       not depend on file naming and in particular works for standard input.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>much-hooks</a>(5),   <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>notmuch-insert</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>notmuch-new</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-properties-7/'>notmuch-proper‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-properties-7/'>ties</a>(7),  <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7),
       <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>notmuch-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2018, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.28</h2>
