<h1>NOTMUCH-NEW(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-new - incorporate new mail into the notmuch database
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b> [options]
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Find and import any new messages to the database.

       The  <b>new</b>  command scans all sub-directories of the database, performing
       full-text indexing on new messages that are  found.  Each  new  message
       will automatically be tagged with both the <b>inbox</b> and <b>unread</b> tags.

       You  should  run  <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b> once after first running <b>notmuch</b> <b>setup</b> to
       create the initial database. The first run may take a long time if  you
       have a significant amount of mail (several hundred thousand messages or
       more). Subsequently, you should run <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b> whenever  new  mail  is
       delivered and you wish to incorporate it into the database.  These sub‐
       sequent runs will be much quicker than the initial run.

       Invoking <b>notmuch</b> with no command argument will run <b>new</b> if <b>notmuch</b> <b>setup</b>
       has  previously been completed, but <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b> has not previously been
       run.

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b> updates tags according  to  maildir  flag  changes  if  the
       <b>maildir.synchronize</b>_<b>flags</b>  configuration  option  is  enabled. See <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>much-config</a>(1) for details.

       The <b>new</b> command supports hooks. See <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>notmuch-hooks</a>(5) for  more  details
       on hooks.

       Supported options for <b>new</b> include

       <b>--no-hooks</b>
              Prevents hooks from being run.

       <b>--quiet</b>
              Do not print progress or results.

       <b>--verbose</b>
              Print  file  names  being  processed. Ignored when combined with
              <b>--quiet</b>.

       <b>--decrypt=(true|nostash|auto|false)</b>
              If <b>true</b>, when encountering an encrypted message, try to  decrypt
              it  while  indexing,  and stash any discovered session keys.  If
              <b>auto</b>, try to use any session key already known to belong to this
              message,  but  do not attempt to use the user&apos;s secret keys.  If
              decryption is successful, index the cleartext of the message.

              Be aware that the index is likely sufficient  (and  the  session
              key is certainly sufficient) to reconstruct the cleartext of the
              message itself, so please ensure that the notmuch message  index
              is   adequately   protected.    DO  NOT  USE  <b>--decrypt=true</b>  or
              <b>--decrypt=nostash</b>  without  considering  the  security  of  your
              index.

              See also <b>index.decrypt</b> in <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1).

       <b>--full-scan</b>
              By   default   notmuch-new  uses  directory  modification  times
              (mtimes) to optimize the scanning of directories for  new  mail.
              This option turns that optimization off.
</pre>

<h2>EXIT STATUS</h2>
<pre>
       This command supports the following special exit status code

       <b>75</b> <b>(EX</b>_<b>TEMPFAIL)</b>
              A temporary failure occurred; the user is invited to retry.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>much-hooks</a>(5), <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>notmuch-insert</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7),   <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>much-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2019, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.29</h2>
