<h1>NOTMUCH(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch - thread-based email index, search, and tagging
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> [option ...] <b>command</b> [arg ...]
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Notmuch  is a command-line based program for indexing, searching, read‐
       ing, and tagging large collections of email messages.

       This page describes how to get started using notmuch from  the  command
       line,  and  gives  a brief overview of the commands available. For more
       information on e.g. <b>notmuch</b> <b>show</b> consult the <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1) man  page,
       also accessible via <b>notmuch</b> <b>help</b> <b>show</b>

       The  quickest  way  to get started with Notmuch is to simply invoke the
       <b>notmuch</b> command with no arguments, which will interactively  guide  you
       through the process of indexing your mail.
</pre>

<h2>NOTE</h2>
<pre>
       While the command-line program <b>notmuch</b> provides powerful functionality,
       it does not provide the most convenient interface for that  functional‐
       ity.  More  sophisticated interfaces are expected to be built on top of
       either the command-line interface, or more likely, on top of  the  not‐
       much  library  interface.  See  <u>https://notmuchmail.org</u>  for more about
       alternate interfaces to notmuch. The emacs-based interface  to  notmuch
       (available under <b>emacs/</b> in the Notmuch source distribution) is probably
       the most widely used at this time.
</pre>

<h2>OPTIONS</h2>
<pre>
       Supported global options for <b>notmuch</b> include

          <b>--help</b> <b>[command-name]</b>
                 Print a synopsis of available commands  and  exit.   With  an
                 optional command name, show the man page for that subcommand.

          <b>--version</b>
                 Print the installed version of notmuch, and exit.

          <b>--config=FILE</b>
                 Specify  the  configuration  file  to use. This overrides any
                 configuration file specified by ${NOTMUCH_CONFIG}.

          <b>--uuid=HEX</b>
                 Enforce that the database UUID  (a  unique  identifier  which
                 persists  until  e.g. the database is compacted) is HEX; exit
                 with an error if it is not. This is useful to detect rollover
                 in  modification  counts  on messages. You can find this UUID
                 using e.g. <b>notmuch</b> <b>count</b> <b>--lastmod</b>

       All global options except <b>--config</b> can also be specified after the com‐
       mand.  For example, <b>notmuch</b> <b>subcommand</b> <b>--uuid=HEX</b> is equivalent to <b>not-</b>
       <b>much</b> <b>--uuid=HEX</b> <b>subcommand</b>.
</pre>

<h2>COMMANDS</h2>

<h3> &nbsp; SETUP</h3>
<pre>
       The <b>notmuch</b> <b>setup</b> command is used to configure Notmuch for  first  use,
       (or to reconfigure it later).

       The  setup  command  will prompt for your full name, your primary email
       address, any alternate email addresses you use, and the directory  con‐
       taining your email archives. Your answers will be written to a configu‐
       ration file in ${NOTMUCH_CONFIG} (if set) or ${HOME}/.notmuch-config  .
       This configuration file will be created with descriptive comments, mak‐
       ing it easy to edit by hand later to change the configuration.  Or  you
       can run <b>notmuch</b> <b>setup</b> again to change the configuration.

       The  mail  directory you specify can contain any number of sub-directo‐
       ries and should primarily contain only files with individual email mes‐
       sages  (eg.  maildir  or  mh archives are perfect). If there are other,
       non-email files (such as indexes maintained by  other  email  programs)
       then notmuch will do its best to detect those and ignore them.

       Mail  storage that uses mbox format, (where one mbox file contains many
       messages), will not work with notmuch. If that&apos;s how your mail is  cur‐
       rently stored, it is recommended you first convert it to maildir format
       with a utility such as mb2md before running <b>notmuch</b> <b>setup</b> <b>.</b>

       Invoking <b>notmuch</b> with no command argument will run <b>setup</b> if  the  setup
       command has not previously been completed.
</pre>

<h3> &nbsp; OTHER COMMANDS</h3>
<pre>
       Several  of the notmuch commands accept search terms with a common syn‐
       tax. See <b>notmuch-search-terms</b>(7) for more details on the supported syn‐
       tax.

       The  <b>search</b>,  <b>show</b>,  <b>address</b>  and  <b>count</b> commands are used to query the
       email database.

       The <b>reply</b> command is useful for  preparing  a  template  for  an  email
       reply.

       The <b>tag</b> command is the only command available for manipulating database
       contents.

       The <b>dump</b> and <b>restore</b> commands can be used to create a textual  dump  of
       email tags for backup purposes, and to restore from that dump.

       The  <b>config</b>  command  can be used to get or set settings in the notmuch
       configuration file.
</pre>

<h3> &nbsp; CUSTOM COMMANDS</h3>
<pre>
       If the given command is not known to notmuch, notmuch tries to  execute
       the external <b>notmuch-&lt;subcommand&gt;</b> in ${PATH} instead. This allows users
       to have their own notmuch related tools to be run via the notmuch  com‐
       mand. By design, this does not allow notmuch&apos;s own commands to be over‐
       riden using external commands.
</pre>

<h2>ENVIRONMENT</h2>
<pre>
       The following environment variables can be used to control the behavior
       of notmuch.

       <b>NOTMUCH</b>_<b>CONFIG</b>
              Specifies  the  location of the notmuch configuration file. Not‐
              much will use ${HOME}/.notmuch-config if this  variable  is  not
              set.

       <b>NOTMUCH</b>_<b>TALLOC</b>_<b>REPORT</b>
              Location  to  write  a  talloc  memory  usage  report.  See <b>tal-</b>
              <b>loc</b>_<b>enable</b>_<b>leak</b>_<b>report</b>_<b>full</b> in <b>talloc</b>(3) for more information.

       <b>NOTMUCH</b>_<b>DEBUG</b>_<b>QUERY</b>
              If set to a non-empty value, the notmuch library will print  (to
              stderr) Xapian queries it constructs.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-address-1/'>notmuch-address</a>(1),    <a href='../notmuch-compact-1/'>notmuch-compact</a>(1),    <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>much-count</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>notmuch-hooks</a>(5),  <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>notmuch-insert</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>notmuch-new</a>(1),      <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1),     <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),     <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>much-search</a>(1),    <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7),    <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1),    <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>much-tag</a>(1)

       The notmuch website: <b>https://notmuchmail.org</b>
</pre>

<h2>CONTACT</h2>
<pre>
       Feel  free to send questions, comments, or kudos to the notmuch mailing
       list &lt;<u>notmuch@notmuchmail.org</u>&gt; . Subscription is  not  required  before
       posting, but is available from the notmuchmail.org website.

       Real-time  interaction  with the Notmuch community is available via IRC
       (server: irc.freenode.net, channel: #notmuch).
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2017, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.24</h2>
