<h1>NOTMUCH-INSERT(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-insert - add a message to the maildir and notmuch database
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>insert</b> [option ...] [+&lt;<u>tag</u>&gt;|-&lt;<u>tag</u>&gt; ...]
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>insert</b> reads a message from standard input and delivers it into
       the maildir directory given by configuration option <b>database.path</b>, then
       incorporates  the  message into the notmuch database. It is an alterna‐
       tive to using a separate tool to deliver the message then running  <b>not-</b>
       <b>much</b> <b>new</b> afterwards.

       The  new message will be tagged with the tags specified by the <b>new.tags</b>
       configuration option, then by operations specified on the command-line:
       tags prefixed by &apos;+&apos; are added while those prefixed by &apos;-&apos; are removed.

       If  the  new message is a duplicate of an existing message in the data‐
       base (it has same Message-ID), it will be added to the  maildir  folder
       and notmuch database, but the tags will not be changed.

       The  <b>insert</b>  command  supports  hooks.  See  <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>notmuch-hooks</a>(5)  for more
       details on hooks.

       Option arguments must appear before any tag operation arguments.   Sup‐
       ported options for <b>insert</b> include

       <b>--folder=&lt;</b>folder<b>&gt;</b>
              Deliver  the  message  to  the specified folder, relative to the
              top-level directory given by the  value  of  <b>database.path</b>.  The
              default  is  the  empty  string,  which  means delivering to the
              top-level directory.

       <b>--create-folder</b>
              Try to create the folder named by the  <b>--folder</b>  option,  if  it
              does not exist. Otherwise the folder must already exist for mail
              delivery to succeed.

       <b>--keep</b> Keep the message file if indexing fails, and  keep  the  message
              indexed  if applying tags or maildir flag synchronization fails.
              Ignore these errors and return exit status 0  to  indicate  suc‐
              cessful mail delivery.

       <b>--no-hooks</b>
              Prevent hooks from being run.

       <b>--world-readable</b>
              When  writing  mail to the mailbox, allow it to be read by users
              other than the current user.  Note that this does  not  override
              umask.   By default, delivered mail is only readable by the cur‐
              rent user.

       <b>--decrypt=(true|nostash|auto|false)</b>
              If <b>true</b> and the message is encrypted, try to decrypt the message
              while  indexing, stashing any session keys discovered.  If <b>auto</b>,
              and notmuch already knows about a session key for  the  message,
              it  will  try decrypting using that session key but will not try
              to access the user&apos;s secret keys.  If decryption is  successful,
              index  the  cleartext itself.  Either way, the message is always
              stored to disk in its original form (ciphertext).

              <b>nostash</b> is the same as  <b>true</b>  except  that  it  will  not  stash
              newly-discovered session keys in the database.

              Be aware that the index is likely sufficient (and a stashed ses‐
              sion key is certainly sufficient) to reconstruct  the  cleartext
              of the message itself, so please ensure that the notmuch message
              index is adequately protected.  DO  NOT  USE  <b>--decrypt=true</b>  or
              <b>--decrypt=nostash</b>  without  considering  the  security  of  your
              index.

              See also <b>index.decrypt</b> in <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1).
</pre>

<h2>EXIT STATUS</h2>
<pre>
       This command  returns  exit  status  0  on  successful  mail  delivery,
       non-zero  otherwise. The default is to indicate failed mail delivery on
       any errors, including message file delivery to the filesystem,  message
       indexing  to Notmuch database, changing tags, and synchronizing tags to
       maildir flags. The <b>--keep</b> option may be used to settle  for  successful
       message file delivery.

       This command supports the following special exit status code for errors
       most likely to be temporary in nature, e.g. failure to get  a  database
       write lock.

       <b>75</b> <b>(EX</b>_<b>TEMPFAIL)</b>
              A temporary failure occurred; the user is invited to retry.

       The exit status of the <b>post-insert</b> hook does not affect the exit status
       of the <b>insert</b> command.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>much-hooks</a>(5), <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7), <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>notmuch-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2020, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.30</h2>
