<h1>NOTMUCH-COMPACT(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-compact - compact the notmuch database
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>compact</b> [--quiet] [--backup=&lt;<u>directory</u>&gt;]
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       The  <b>compact</b> command can be used to compact the notmuch database.  This
       can both reduce the space required by the database and  improve  lookup
       performance.

       The  compacted  database is built in a temporary directory and is later
       moved into the place of the origin database. The  original  uncompacted
       database is discarded, unless the <b>--backup=</b>&lt;directory&gt; option is used.

       Note  that  the  database write lock will be held during the compaction
       process (which may be quite long) to protect data integrity.

       Supported options for <b>compact</b> include

          <b>--backup=&lt;directory&gt;</b>
                 Save the current  database  to  the  given  directory  before
                 replacing  it  with the compacted database. The backup direc‐
                 tory must not exist and it must reside on  the  same  mounted
                 filesystem as the current database.

          <b>--quiet</b>
                 Do not report database compaction progress to stdout.
</pre>

<h2>ENVIRONMENT</h2>
<pre>
       The following environment variables can be used to control the behavior
       of notmuch.

       <b>NOTMUCH</b>_<b>CONFIG</b>
              Specifies the location of the notmuch configuration  file.  Not‐
              much  will  use  ${HOME}/.notmuch-config if this variable is not
              set.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>notmuch-hooks</a>(5),  <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>much-insert</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>notmuch-new</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7),   <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>much-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2014, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.19</h2>
