<h1>NOTMUCH-CONFIG(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-config - Access notmuch configuration file.
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>config</b> <b>get</b> &lt;<u>section</u>&gt;.&lt;<u>item</u>&gt;

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>config</b> <b>set</b> &lt;<u>section</u>&gt;.&lt;<u>item</u>&gt; [<u>value</u> ...]

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>config</b> <b>list</b>
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       The  <b>config</b>  command  can be used to get or set settings in the notmuch
       configuration file.

           <b>get</b> The value of the specified configuration  item  is  printed  to
               stdout.  If  the  item has multiple values (it is a list), each
               value is separated by a newline character.

           <b>set</b> The specified configuration item is set to the given value.  To
               specify a multiple-value item (a list), provide each value as a
               separate command-line argument.

               If no values are provided,  the  specified  configuration  item
               will be removed from the configuration file.

           <b>list</b>
               Every  configuration item is printed to stdout, each on a sepa-
               rate line of the form:

               <u>section</u>.<u>item</u>=<u>value</u>

               No additional whitespace surrounds the dot or equals sign char-
               acters. In a multiple-value item (a list), the values are sepa-
               rated by semicolon characters.

       The available configuration items are described below.

           <b>database.path</b>
               The top-level directory where your mail currently exists and to
               where  mail  will  be  delivered in the future. Files should be
               individual email messages.  Notmuch  will  store  its  database
               within  a sub-directory of the path configured here named <b>.not-</b>
               <b>much</b>.

           <b>user.name</b>
               Your full name.

           <b>user.primary</b>_<b>email</b>
               Your primary email address.

           <b>user.other</b>_<b>email</b>
               A list of other email addresses at which you receive email.

           <b>new.tags</b>
               A list of tags that will be added to all messages  incorporated
               by <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b>.

           <b>new.ignore</b>
               A list of file and directory names, without path, that will not
               be searched for messages by <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b>.   All  the  files  and
               directories  matching  any  of the names specified here will be
               ignored, regardless of the location in the mail store directory
               hierarchy.

           <b>search.exclude</b>_<b>tags</b>
               A  list  of  tags  that will be excluded from search results by
               default. Using an excluded tag in a query  will  override  that
               exclusion.

           <b>maildir.synchronize</b>_<b>flags</b>
               If  true,  then  the  following maildir flags (in message file-
               names) will be  synchronized  with  the  corresponding  notmuch
               tags:

                 Flag    Tag
                 ----    -------
                 D       draft
                 F       flagged
                 P       passed
                 R       replied
                 S       unread (added when &apos;S&apos; flag is not present)

               The  <b>notmuch</b>  <b>new</b> command will notice flag changes in filenames
               and update tags, while the <b>notmuch</b> <b>tag</b> and <b>notmuch</b> <b>restore</b> com-
               mands will notice tag changes and update flags in filenames.

               If  there  have  been  any changes in the maildir (new messages
               added, old ones removed  or  renamed,  maildir  flags  changed,
               etc.), it is advisable to run <b>notmuch</b> <b>new</b> before <b>notmuch</b> <b>tag</b> or
               <b>notmuch</b> <b>restore</b> commands to ensure the tag changes are properly
               synchronized  to  the maildir flags, as the commands expect the
               database and maildir to be in sync.
</pre>

<h2>ENVIRONMENT</h2>
<pre>
       The following environment variables can be used to control the behavior
       of notmuch.

       <b>NOTMUCH</b>_<b>CONFIG</b>
              Specifies  the  location of the notmuch configuration file. Not-
              much will use ${HOME}/.notmuch-config if this  variable  is  not
              set.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>notmuch-hooks</a>(5), <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>not-</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>much-new</a>(1)
, <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7), <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>notmuch-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>Notmuch 0.13.2</h2>
