<h1>NOTMUCH-REPLY(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-reply - constructs a reply template for a set of messages
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>reply</b> [option ...] &lt;<u>search-term</u>&gt; ...
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Constructs a reply template for a set of messages.

       To  make  replying to email easier, <b>notmuch</b> <b>reply</b> takes an existing set
       of messages and constructs a  suitable  mail  template.  The  Reply-to:
       header  (if  any,  otherwise From:) is used for the To: address. Unless
       <b>--reply-to=sender</b> is specified, values from the To: and Cc: headers are
       copied, but not including any of the current user&apos;s email addresses (as
       configured in primary_mail or other_email in the .notmuch-config  file)
       in the recipient list.

       It  also  builds a suitable new subject, including Re: at the front (if
       not already present), and adding the message IDs of the messages  being
       replied  to  to  the References list and setting the In-Reply-To: field
       correctly.

       Finally, the original contents of the emails are  quoted  by  prefixing
       each line with &apos;&gt; &apos; and included in the body.

       The resulting message template is output to stdout.

       Supported options for <b>reply</b> include
          <b>--format=</b>(<b>default</b>|<b>json</b>|<b>sexp</b>|<b>headers-only</b>)

              <b>default</b>
                     Includes  subject  and quoted message body as an RFC 2822
                     message.

              <b>json</b>   Produces JSON output containing headers for a reply  mes‐
                     sage  and the contents of the original message. This out‐
                     put can be used by a client to  create  a  reply  message
                     intelligently.

              <b>sexp</b>   Produces  S-Expression  output  containing  headers for a
                     reply message and the contents of the  original  message.
                     This  output  can  be  used by a client to create a reply
                     message intelligently.

              <b>headers-only</b>
                     Only produces In-Reply-To, References, To,  Cc,  and  Bcc
                     headers.

          <b>--format-version=N</b>
                 Use  the  specified structured output format version. This is
                 intended for programs that invoke <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1)  internally.  If
                 omitted, the latest supported version will be used.

          <b>--reply-to=</b>(<b>all</b>|<b>sender</b>)

              <b>all</b> <b>(default)</b>
                     Replies to all addresses.

              <b>sender</b> Replies  only  to  the  sender. If replying to user&apos;s own
                     message (Reply-to: or From: header is one of  the  user&apos;s
                     configured email addresses), try To:, Cc:, and Bcc: head‐
                     ers in this order, and copy values from  the  first  that
                     contains something other than only the user&apos;s addresses.

          <b>--decrypt</b>
                 Decrypt  any  MIME encrypted parts found in the selected con‐
                 tent (ie. &quot;multipart/encrypted&quot; parts). Status of the decryp‐
                 tion  will  be reported (currently only supported with --for‐
                 mat=json and --format=sexp) and on successful decryption  the
                 multipart/encrypted  part  will  be replaced by the decrypted
                 content.

                 Decryption expects a functioning <b>gpg-agent</b>(1) to provide  any
                 needed credentials. Without one, the decryption will fail.

       See  <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7)  for  details  of the supported syntax for
       &lt;search-terms&gt;.

       Note: It is most common to use  <b>notmuch</b>  <b>reply</b>  with  a  search  string
       matching  a  single  message,  (such as id:&lt;message-id&gt;), but it can be
       useful to reply to several messages at once. For example, when a series
       of  patches  are sent in a single thread, replying to the entire thread
       allows for the reply to comment on issues found  in  multiple  patches.
       The  default format supports replying to multiple messages at once, but
       the JSON and S-Expression formats do not.
</pre>

<h2>EXIT STATUS</h2>
<pre>
       This command supports the following special exit status codes

       <b>20</b>     The requested format version is too old.

       <b>21</b>     The requested format version is too new.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>much-hooks</a>(5),  <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>notmuch-insert</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>notmuch-new</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7),   <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1),   <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>much-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2014, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.19</h2>
