<h1>NOTMUCH-SHOW(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-show - show messages matching the given search terms
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>show</b> [<u>option</u> ...] &lt;<u>search-term</u>&gt; ...
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Shows all messages matching the search terms.

       See  <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7)  for  details  of the supported syntax for
       &lt;search-terms&gt;.

       The messages will be grouped and sorted based  on  the  threading  (all
       replies to a particular message will appear immediately after that mes‐
       sage in date order). The output is not indented by default,  but  depth
       tags  are  printed  so  that  proper  indentation can be performed by a
       post-processor (such as the emacs interface to notmuch).

       Supported options for <b>show</b> include

          <b>--entire-thread=(true|false)</b>
                 If true, <b>notmuch</b> <b>show</b> outputs all messages in the  thread  of
                 any  message  matching the search terms; if false, it outputs
                 only the matching  messages.  For  <b>--format=json</b>  and  <b>--for-</b>
                 <b>mat=sexp</b>  this  defaults  to  true.  For  other formats, this
                 defaults to false.

          <b>--format=(text|json|sexp|mbox|raw)</b>

              <b>text</b> <b>(default</b> <b>for</b> <b>messages)</b>
                     The default plain-text format has all  text-content  MIME
                     parts  decoded.  Various  components in the output, (<b>mes-</b>
                     <b>sage</b>, <b>header</b>, <b>body</b>, <b>attachment</b>, and MIME <b>part</b>),  will  be
                     delimited  by easily-parsed markers. Each marker consists
                     of a Control-L character (ASCII decimal 12), the name  of
                     the  marker, and then either an opening or closing brace,
                     (&apos;{&apos; or &apos;}&apos;), to either open or close the component.  For
                     a multipart MIME message, these parts will be nested.

              <b>json</b>   The  output  is formatted with Javascript Object Notation
                     (JSON). This format is more robust than the  text  format
                     for  automated processing. The nested structure of multi‐
                     part MIME messages is reflected in nested JSON output. By
                     default  JSON  output includes all messages in a matching
                     thread;  that  is,   by   default,   <b>--format=json</b>   sets
                     <b>--entire-thread</b>. The caller can disable this behaviour by
                     setting <b>--entire-thread=false</b>.  The JSON output is always
                     encoded  as UTF-8 and any message content included in the
                     output will be charset-converted to UTF-8.

              <b>sexp</b>   The output is formatted as the Lisp  s-expression  (sexp)
                     equivalent  of the JSON format above. Objects are format‐
                     ted as property lists whose keys  are  keywords  (symbols
                     preceded  by  a  colon).  True is formatted as <b>t</b> and both
                     false and null are formatted as <b>nil</b>.  As  for  JSON,  the
                     s-expression output is always encoded as UTF-8.

              <b>mbox</b>   All matching messages are output in the traditional, Unix
                     mbox format with each message being prefixed  by  a  line
                     beginning  with  &quot;From &quot; and a blank line separating each
                     message. Lines in  the  message  content  beginning  with
                     &quot;From &quot; (preceded by zero or more &apos;&gt;&apos; characters) have an
                     additional &apos;&gt;&apos; character added. This reversible  escaping
                     is termed &quot;mboxrd&quot; format and described in detail here:

                     <u>http://homepage.ntlworld.com/jonathan.deboynepollard/FGA/mail-mbox-formats.html</u>

              <b>raw</b> <b>(default</b> <b>if</b> <b>--part</b> <b>is</b> <b>given)</b>
                     Write the raw bytes of the given MIME part of  a  message
                     to standard out. For this format, it is an error to spec‐
                     ify a query that matches more than one message.

                     If the specified part is a leaf part,  this  outputs  the
                     body of the part after performing content transfer decod‐
                     ing (but no charset conversion).  This  is  suitable  for
                     saving attachments, for example.

                     For  a multipart or message part, the output includes the
                     part headers as well as the  body  (including  all  child
                     parts).  No  decoding  is performed because multipart and
                     message parts cannot have  non-trivial  content  transfer
                     encoding.  Consumers  of  this may need to implement MIME
                     decoding and similar functions.

          <b>--format-version=N</b>
                 Use the specified structured output format version.  This  is
                 intended  for  programs that invoke <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1) internally. If
                 omitted, the latest supported version will be used.

          <b>--part=N</b>
                 Output the single decoded MIME part N of  a  single  message.
                 The  search  terms  must match only a single message. Message
                 parts are numbered in a depth-first walk of the message  MIME
                 structure, and are identified in the &apos;json&apos;, &apos;sexp&apos; or &apos;text&apos;
                 output formats.

                 Note that even a message with no MIME structure or  a  single
                 body  part still has two MIME parts: part 0 is the whole mes‐
                 sage (headers and body) and part 1 is just the body.

          <b>--verify</b>
                 Compute and report the validity  of  any  MIME  cryptographic
                 signatures   found  in  the  selected  content  (ie.  &quot;multi‐
                 part/signed&quot; parts). Status of the signature will be reported
                 (currently  only  supported  with  --format=json  and  --for‐
                 mat=sexp), and the multipart/signed part will be replaced  by
                 the signed data.

          <b>--decrypt</b>
                 Decrypt  any  MIME encrypted parts found in the selected con‐
                 tent (ie. &quot;multipart/encrypted&quot; parts). Status of the decryp‐
                 tion  will  be reported (currently only supported with --for‐
                 mat=json and --format=sexp) and on successful decryption  the
                 multipart/encrypted  part  will  be replaced by the decrypted
                 content.

                 Decryption expects a functioning <b>gpg-agent</b>(1) to provide  any
                 needed credentials. Without one, the decryption will fail.

                 Implies --verify.

          <b>--exclude=(true|false)</b>
                 Specify    whether    to    omit    threads   only   matching
                 search.tag_exclude from the search results (the  default)  or
                 not.  In either case the excluded message will be marked with
                 the exclude flag  (except  when  output=mbox  when  there  is
                 nowhere to put the flag).

                 If  --entire-thread  is  specified  then complete threads are
                 returned regardless (with the excluded flag  being  set  when
                 appropriate)  but threads that only match in an excluded mes‐
                 sage are not returned when <b>--exclude=true.</b>

                 The default is <b>--exclude=true.</b>

          <b>--body=(true|false)</b>
                 If true (the default) <b>notmuch</b> <b>show</b> includes the bodies of the
                 messages  in  the  output;  if  false,  bodies  are  omitted.
                 <b>--body=false</b> is only implemented for the json and  sexp  for‐
                 mats and it is incompatible with <b>--part</b> <b>&gt;</b> <b>0.</b>

                 This  is  useful  if  the  caller  only  needs the headers as
                 body-less output is much faster and substantially smaller.

          <b>--include-html</b>
                 Include &quot;text/html&quot; parts as part of  the  output  (currently
                 only  supported  with  --format=json  and  --format=sexp). By
                 default, unless <b>--part=N</b> is used to select a specific part or
                 <b>--include-html</b>  is  used to include all &quot;text/html&quot; parts, no
                 part with content type &quot;text/html&quot; is included in the output.

       A common use of <b>notmuch</b> <b>show</b> is to display a  single  thread  of  email
       messages. For this, use a search term of &quot;thread:&lt;thread-id&gt;&quot; as can be
       seen in the first column of output from the <b>notmuch</b> <b>search</b> command.
</pre>

<h2>EXIT STATUS</h2>
<pre>
       This command supports the following special exit status codes

       <b>20</b>     The requested format version is too old.

       <b>21</b>     The requested format version is too new.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>much-hooks</a>(5),   <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>notmuch-insert</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>notmuch-new</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7),  <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>much-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2014, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.20.1</h2>
