<h1>NOTMUCH-REINDEX(1)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-reindex - re-index matching messages
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>reindex</b> [<u>option</u> ...] &lt;<u>search-term</u>&gt; ...
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Re-index all messages matching the search terms.

       See  <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>notmuch-search-terms</a>(7)  for  details  of the supported syntax for
       &lt;<u>search-term</u>&gt;.

       The <b>reindex</b> command searches for all  messages  matching  the  supplied
       search  terms,  and  re-creates  the  full-text index on these messages
       using the supplied options.

       Supported options for <b>reindex</b> include

       <b>--decrypt=(true|nostash|auto|false)</b>
              If <b>true</b>, when encountering an encrypted message, try to  decrypt
              it  while  reindexing, stashing any session keys discovered.  If
              <b>auto</b>, and notmuch already knows about a session key for the mes‐
              sage, it will try decrypting using that session key but will not
              try to access the user&apos;s secret keys.  If decryption is success‐
              ful, index the cleartext itself.

              <b>nostash</b>  is  the  same  as  <b>true</b>  except  that it will not stash
              newly-discovered session keys in the database.

              If <b>false</b>, notmuch reindex will also delete any  stashed  session
              keys for all messages matching the search terms.

              Be aware that the index is likely sufficient (and a stashed ses‐
              sion key is certainly sufficient) to reconstruct  the  cleartext
              of the message itself, so please ensure that the notmuch message
              index is adequately protected.  DO  NOT  USE  <b>--decrypt=true</b>  or
              <b>--decrypt=nostash</b>  without  considering  the  security  of  your
              index.

              See also <b>index.decrypt</b> in <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1).
</pre>

<h2>EXAMPLES</h2>
<pre>
       A user just received an encrypted message without indexing its  cleart‐
       ext.   After  reading it (via <b>notmuch</b> <b>show</b> <b>--decrypt=true</b>), they decide
       that they want to index its cleartext so that they can easily  find  it
       later and read it without having to have access to their secret keys:

          notmuch reindex --decrypt=true id:1234567@example.com

       A  user  wants  to  change their policy going forward to start indexing
       cleartext.  But they also want indexed access to the cleartext  of  all
       previously-received  encrypted  messages.   Some  messages  might  have
       already been indexed in the clear (as in the example above).  They  can
       ask notmuch to just reindex the not-yet-indexed messages:

          notmuch config set index.decrypt true
          notmuch reindex tag:encrypted and not property:index.decryption=success

       Later,  the user changes their mind, and wants to stop indexing cleart‐
       ext (perhaps their threat model has changed, or their  trust  in  their
       index store has been shaken).  They also want to clear all of their old
       cleartext from the index.  Note that they compact the  database  after‐
       ward as a workaround for <u>https://trac.xapian.org/ticket/742</u>:

          notmuch config set index.decrypt false
          notmuch reindex property:index.decryption=success
          notmuch compact
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-compact-1/'>notmuch-compact</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-count-1/'>notmuch-count</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-hooks-5/'>notmuch-hooks</a>(5),  <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>notmuch-insert</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>notmuch-new</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1),     <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),    <a href='../notmuch-search-1/'>notmuch-search</a>(1),    <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-search-terms-7/'>much-search-terms</a>(7), <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-tag-1/'>notmuch-tag</a>(1)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2018, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.27</h2>
