<h1>NOTMUCH-PROPERTIES(7)</h1>

<h2>NAME</h2>
<pre>
       notmuch-properties  - notmuch message property conventions and documen‐
       tation
</pre>

<h2>SYNOPSIS</h2>
<pre>
       <b>notmuch</b> <b>count</b> <b>property:</b>&lt;<u>key</u>&gt;=&lt;<u>value</u>&gt;

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>search</b> <b>property:</b>&lt;<u>key</u>&gt;=&lt;<u>value</u>&gt;

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>show</b> <b>property:</b>&lt;<u>key</u>&gt;=&lt;<u>value</u>&gt;

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>reindex</b> <b>property:</b>&lt;<u>key</u>&gt;=&lt;<u>value</u>&gt;

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>tag</b> +&lt;<u>tag</u>&gt; <b>property:</b>&lt;<u>key</u>&gt;=&lt;<u>value</u>&gt;

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>dump</b> <b>--include=properties</b>

       <b>notmuch</b> <b>restore</b> <b>--include=properties</b>
</pre>

<h2>DESCRIPTION</h2>
<pre>
       Several notmuch commands can search for, modify, add or remove  proper‐
       ties  associated  with  specific  messages.   Properties  are key/value
       pairs, and a message can have more than one key/value pair for the same
       key.

       While  users  can  select  based on a specific property in their search
       terms with the prefix <b>property:</b>,  the  notmuch  command-line  interface
       does  not  provide  mechanisms for modifying properties directly to the
       user.

       Instead, message properties are expected to be set and used programmat‐
       ically, according to logic in notmuch itself, or in extensions to it.

       Extensions  to  notmuch  which make use of properties are encouraged to
       report the specific properties used to the upstream notmuch project, as
       a way of avoiding collisions in the property namespace.
</pre>

<h2>CONVENTIONS</h2>
<pre>
       Any  property with a key that starts with &quot;index.&quot; will be removed (and
       possibly re-set) upon reindexing (see <a href='../notmuch-reindex-1/'>notmuch-reindex</a>(1)).
</pre>

<h2>MESSAGE PROPERTIES</h2>
<pre>
       The following properties are set by notmuch internally in the course of
       its normal activity.

       <b>index.decryption</b>
              If  a  message  contains encrypted content, and notmuch tries to
              decrypt that content during indexing, it will add  the  property
              <b>index.decryption=success</b>  when  the  cleartext  was successfully
              indexed.  If notmuch attempts to decrypt any part of  a  message
              during  indexing  and that decryption attempt fails, it will add
              the property <b>index.decryption=failure</b> to the message.

              Note that it&apos;s possible  for  a  single  message  to  have  both
              <b>index.decryption=success</b> and <b>index.decryption=failure</b>.  Consider
              an encrypted e-mail  message  that  contains  another  encrypted
              e-mail  message  as an attachment -- if the outer message can be
              decrypted, but the attached part cannot,  then  both  properties
              will be set on the message as a whole.

              If  notmuch  never  tried to decrypt an encrypted message during
              indexing (which  is  the  default,  see  <b>index.decrypt</b>  in  <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>not‐</a>
              <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>much-config</a>(1)), then this property will not be set on that mes‐
              sage.

       <b>session-key</b>
          When <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1) or <b>nomtuch-reply</b> encounters a message  with  an
          encrypted  part,  if notmuch finds a <b>session-key</b> property associated
          with the message, it will try that stashed session key  for  decryp‐
          tion.

          If  you  do  not  want to use any stashed session keys that might be
          present, you should pass those programs <b>--decrypt=false</b>.

          Using a stashed session key with &quot;notmuch show&quot; will speed  up  ren‐
          dering  of  long  encrypted  threads.   It  also  allows the user to
          destroy the secret part of  any  expired  encryption-capable  subkey
          while  still being able to read any retained messages for which they
          have stashed the session key.  This enables truly deletable  e-mail,
          since   (once  the  session  key  and  asymmetric  subkey  are  both
          destroyed) there are no keys left that can be used  to  decrypt  any
          copy of the original message previously stored by an adversary.

          However,  access to the stashed session key for an encrypted message
          permits full byte-for-byte reconstruction of the cleartext  message.
          This includes attachments, cryptographic signatures, and other mate‐
          rial that cannot be reconstructed from the index alone.

          See <b>index.decrypt</b> in <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1) for more details about how to
          set notmuch&apos;s policy on when to store session keys.

          The  session key should be in the ASCII text form produced by GnuPG.
          For OpenPGP, that consists of a decimal representation of  the  hash
          algorithm  used  (identified  by  number from RFC 4880, e.g. 9 means
          AES-256) followed by a colon, followed by a hexadecimal  representa‐
          tion  of  the  algorithm-specific  key.  For example, an AES-128 key
          might   be   stashed   in    a    notmuch    property    as:    <b>ses-</b>
          <b>sion-key=7:14B16AF65536C28AF209828DFE34C9E0</b>.
</pre>

<h2>SEE ALSO</h2>
<pre>
       <a href='../notmuch-1/'>notmuch</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-config-1/'>notmuch-config</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-dump-1/'>notmuch-dump</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-insert-1/'>notmuch-insert</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>not‐</a>
       <a href='../notmuch-new-1/'>much-new</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-reindex-1/'>notmuch-reindex</a>(1), <a href='../notmuch-reply-1/'>notmuch-reply</a>(1),  <a href='../notmuch-restore-1/'>notmuch-restore</a>(1),
       <a href='../notmuch-show-1/'>notmuch-show</a>(1), <b>*notmuch-search-terms</b>(7)
</pre>

<h2>AUTHOR</h2>
<pre>
       Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>COPYRIGHT</h2>
<pre>
       2009-2019, Carl Worth and many others
</pre>

<h2>0.29</h2>
