[[!img notmuch-logo.png alt="Notmuch logo" class="left"]]
#Using notmuch remotely#

(the "old" page, see also [[new|remoteusage]] page)

##Why?##
It is hard to keep nomuch tags in sync across multiple instances of
notmuch, on multiple computers. Though you can do this with "notmuch
dump" and "notmuch restore", it is often preferable to be able to use
notmuch on a remote computer as if it were present on a local
computer.

The following guidelines show how I have accomplished this. It isn't
perfect, but it works pretty well, and allows me to access notmuch on
my home computer, using only an emacs client on my netbook or work
computer, a trivial shell script, a few settings in my .emacs, and a
couple of common unix utilities (ssh and dtach).

##What you will need##
You will need to have the following items in place:

1.  a working notmuch on one computer (let's call that computer
"server").

2.  a working notmuch emacs interface on another computer (let's call
that computer "client")

3.  `ssh` and `dtach` on your client computer. (TODO: Make dtach
optional, or allow screen or tmux to be used instead.
[[Here|remoteusage/remotewrapper]] is a version that does not require dtach.)

4.  password-free login (public key authentication) from client to
server. [Here](http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/152) is a
good page on how to set it up.

5.  a reasonably fast connection. (This isn't really *neccessary*, but
if your connection is too slow, this won't be very pleasant to use,
and certainly won't seem transparent.)


##Write a wrapper shell script##

Now we will need to write a simple shell script that does two things:

1.  replaces the call to the notmuch binary with a call to notmuch
over ssh.

2.  sets up a running, detached, ssh connection to the server, so that
future calls can reuse the socket.

        #!/usr/bin/env bash

        SSH_BIN="ssh"
        USER="example_user"
        SSH_HOST="example.com"
        SOCKET_DIR="/tmp/notmuch_$(id -u)"
        SSH_SOCKET="${SOCKET_DIR}/ssh.socket"
        NOTMUCH_REMOTE_BIN="notmuch"
        DTACH="/usr/bin/dtach"
        DTACH_SOCKET="${SOCKET_DIR}/dtach.socket"

        check_for_socket_dir ()
        {
            [ -d "${SOCKET_DIR}" ]
        }

        check_socket_dir_owner_and_perm ()
        {
            [ "$(stat -c %U ${SOCKET_DIR})" = "$(whoami)" ] &&
            [ "$(stat -c %a ${SOCKET_DIR})" = "700" ]
        }

        create_socket_dir ()
        {
            mkdir "${SOCKET_DIR}"
            chmod 700 "${SOCKET_DIR}"
        }

        check_for_socket ()
        {
            [ -S "${SSH_SOCKET}" ]
        }

        start_socket ()
        {
            dtach_command="${DTACH} -n ${DTACH_SOCKET} ${SSH_BIN} -M -S ${SSH_SOCKET} ${USER}@${SSH_HOST}"
            command -v ${DTACH} &>/dev/null && ${dtach_command}
        }

        notmuch_run ()
        {
            if check_for_socket_dir; then
                if check_socket_dir_owner_and_perm; then
                    if ! check_for_socket; then
                        start_socket
                    fi
                else echo "Wrong permissions of ${SOCKET_DIR}" >&2
                    exit 1
                fi
            elif create_socket_dir; then
                start_socket
            else
                exit 1
            fi
            printf -v ARGS "%q " "$@"
            $SSH_BIN -S $SSH_SOCKET $USER@$SSH_HOST $NOTMUCH_REMOTE_BIN ${ARGS}
        }

        notmuch_run "$@"

Save this to a file, "remote-notmuch.sh", in your path.

Now you can run "remote-notmuch.sh new". You can call the script
anything you like. I actually have $HOME/bin/notmuch linked to that
script, so I can have transparent
usage.

##Configure your emacs client##

The only thing you need to do is tell your emacs client to use the
script. Add the following to your .emacs (this is on your client
machine):

    (setq notmuch-command "/path/to/your/remote-notmuch.sh")

##Problems##
Some things probably won't work perfectly, and there might be some unexpected
mismatches between normal usage and this sort of usage. If you're
using this approach and run into any problems, please feel free to
list them here. And, of course, if you improve on any of these
approaches, please do edit this page and let people know!
