[[!img notmuch-logo.png alt="Notmuch logo" class="left"]]
# Contributing to Notmuch

This is your friendly guide to contributing to Notmuch. In a nutshell,
the Notmuch project maintains fairly high standards for code, review,
tests, and documentation. It may seem a bit intimidating at first, and
you may find it difficult to get your first contributions accepted,
but once you get the hang of it, it'll be fun. This page should help
you get there. DON'T PANIC.

The headlines below act as a checklist. Not all of them apply in all
situations; use common sense.

[[!toc levels=2]]

## Obtain the Notmuch source code

The Notmuch source code is maintained in [git](http://git-scm.com/). Get the
source code using:

	git clone git://notmuchmail.org/git/notmuch

This guide assumes a working knowledge of git. There are plenty of resources
available on git, such as [Pro Git](http://git-scm.com/book) and the git man
pages. Please refer to them as necessary.

## Make your changes

The changes you submit should almost always be based on the current
Notmuch git master. There are plenty of ways to work in git, and this
is not your git guide, but a typical workflow might start with:

	git fetch origin
	git checkout -b my-local-branch origin/master
	# make changes
	git add ...
	git commit

If you're planning big changes, it may be advisable to __not__ polish
the patch series according to all the details described below at
first. Instead, it may save everyone's time to introduce the idea
using draft or work-in-progress patches, and get the design right from
the beginning. Add a cover letter explaining what you want to
achieve. You may prefix the subjects of such patches with "RFC" or
"DRAFT" if you like.

## Pay attention to the Notmuch coding style

The Notmuch code base follows a fairly uniform coding style. See the existing
code around your changes, and read
[`devel/STYLE`](http://git.notmuchmail.org/git/notmuch/blob/HEAD:/devel/STYLE)
in the Notmuch source. It's not difficult to get it right, and may save you an
extra review round.

## Split your commits in logical chunks

Each commit should contain one logical change only. The code should
build and the tests should pass after each commit. Changes to lib,
cli, emacs, tests, man pages, or news are usually best kept
separate. Also separate cleanups from functional changes. See the
Notmuch source history (`git log`) for examples.

For in-depth discussion on the subject, see
[Software Release Practice HOWTO](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Software-Release-Practice-HOWTO/) by Eric S. Raymond.

## Write meaningful commit messages

[Quoting Carl](http://article.gmane.org/gmane.mail.notmuch.general/504),
"The single line summary is good about saying what the commit does,
but I always want to see at least one sentence about the why as well."

See also
[Pro Git](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project#Commit-Guidelines)
on commit guidelines, including commit messages.

It is customary to prefix the subject line with "lib:", "cli:", "emacs:",
etc. depending on which part of Notmuch the commit is changing. See `git log`
for examples.

Wrap the lines to about 72 characters.

If you want to share notes that shall not become part of the commit
message when applied to the upstream Notmuch repository, add the notes
at the end, after a line containing "---".

## Update the test suite

Notmuch has a test suite with fairly good coverage. At the very least, `make
test` must pass after your changes. Therefore you must amend the tests if you
make functional changes that have existing test coverage. Preferrably, you
should add new tests for any new functionality, and it helps in getting your
changes accepted.

If you're fixing a bug, it is recommended to add a "known broken" test
highlighting the issue in a first patch, and then fix the bug (and remove
the known broken mark on the test) in the next patch in the series. This
makes it
easy to confirm your changes actually fix the issue. Some people use this
approach also for adding new features.

See
[`test/README`](http://git.notmuchmail.org/git/notmuch/blob/HEAD:/test/README)
in the Notmuch source for further information.

## Update the documentation

If you modify or add new features to the Notmuch command-line tools,
you should update the manual pages under the `man` directory of the
Notmuch source.

If you modify or add new features to the Notmuch Emacs UI, you should
update the Emacs documentation.

## Update NEWS

If you make user visible changes, you should add an entry to the
[`NEWS`](http://git.notmuchmail.org/git/notmuch/blob/HEAD:/NEWS) file.

## Subscribe to the Notmuch mailing list

While strictly not required, it is advisable to subscribe to the
[Notmuch mailing list](http://notmuchmail.org/mailman/listinfo/notmuch)
before submitting patches.

## Send your patches to the mailing list

Changes to Notmuch are contributed as [emailed
patches](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project#Public-Large-Project).
Once you have your changes ready in your local repository, you need to
send them to the Notmuch mailing list. The simplest way is to use `git
send-email` to send the patches directly from your repository:

	git send-email --to notmuch@notmuchmail.org origin/master

An alternative is to do this in two steps; first generating patch
files (using `git format-patch`), and then sending the patch files to
the mailing list (using `git send-email` or a mail client):

	git format-patch origin/master
	git send-email --to notmuch@notmuchmail.org *.patch

Either way, using `git send-email` to actually send the patches is
recommended. It may be distributed separately from git, typically in a
package named `git-email`.

## Write a cover letter

If you are submitting a non-trivial set of patches, or if there's any
extra information you want to share that is not really part of the
commit messages, it is advisable to write a cover letter to give an
overview of your work. See the
[Notmuch mailing list archives](http://notmuchmail.org/pipermail/notmuch/)
for examples. Use the `--cover-letter` option of `git format-patch`,
or `--compose` option of `git send-email`.

## Tag your patches in nmbug

When you're developing an email tool, all the problems start looking
like email. This applies to patch and bug tracking as well. The
Notmuch project uses [nmbug](http://notmuchmail.org/nmbug/) for
tracking. The Notmuch developers will tag your patches too, making
them show up in the
[nmbug status page](http://nmbug.tethera.net/status/), but requesting
access and tagging your patches yourself will be helpful in the long
run.

## Address review comments, participate in discussion

Each change to Notmuch must be peer reviewed before it is accepted,
usually by one or two developers, depending on the impact of the
changes. You are expected to follow up on the review comments you
receive, either by discussing the comments and the code, or modifying
your patches. Again, see the [Notmuch mailing list
archives](http://notmuchmail.org/pipermail/notmuch/) for examples.

## Send another round addressing review comments

If your patches need to be changed based on review (they usually do),
you need to make the changes and re-submit. `git rebase -i` is your
friend in updating your series. Also note that the upstream master may
have changed; be sure to rebase your updated changes on top of the
current master.

Once you have the updated series ready, send it to the mailing list
again. It will be helpful for others to use the
`--subject-prefix="PATCH vN"` option of `git format-patch` or
`git send-email` to add a version number of the patch series to the
subject (replacing vN with v2, v3, etc.) Use a cover letter (or, in
the case of a single patch, the notes after a "---" at the end of the
commit message) to summarize the main changes since the previous
version of the patch series. Also include the message-id reference of
the previous version.

Using the `--in-reply-to` option of `git format-patch` or
`git send-email` to send the patch series as a reply to the earlier
version is generally discouraged, particularly for large series, but
there are no hard rules. Usually the message-id reference to the
previous version is sufficient and preferred.

Tag the old patches obsolete in [nmbug](http://notmuchmail.org/nmbug/)
if you have access.

## Review other people's work

You scratch my back and I'll scratch yours. It will be easier to get
people to review your patches if you review theirs.

## Report bugs

Send bug reports to the Notmuch mailing list. Preferrably prefix the
subject line with "BUG:" or similar. Tag the message as a bug in
[nmbug](http://notmuchmail.org/nmbug/).

Even better, send a patch adding a "known broken" test to the test suite
highlighting the issue.

## Join the Notmuch IRC channel

Patch review happens on the Notmuch mailing list, but there is plenty of
discussion going on in the freenode #notmuch IRC channel. See
[freenode.net/irc_servers.shtml](http://freenode.net/irc_servers.shtml)
for information how to get there.
