[[!img notmuch-logo.png alt="Notmuch logo" class="left"]]
#List of features people have requested and ideas that people want to keep thinking about

## Emacs client

+    Add 'd' keybinding

     Removes unread and inbox tags, adds deleted tag.

     When used from a search results view, it deletes the thread that
     the cursor is on.

     When used from the thread view, it deletes the currently
     displayed message inside the thread.

+    Add 'D' keybinding

     Removes unread and inbox tags, adds deleted tag.

     When used from a search results view, it deletes the thread that
     the cursor is on (just like 'd')

     When used from the thread view, it deletes the currently
     displayed thread (and not just the message)

+    Add '???' keybinding

     Skips current thread without archiving it

     Right now 'n' gets me to the end of a thread, but not to the
     beginning of the next thread. 'a' gets you to the next thread,
     but archives the current one.

+    Allow different "real names" for the optional email addresses

     if only one name is configured, use that for all addresses;
     if other_names are configured, match those with the other_email addresses

+    Put the the emacs mode in a separate repository and include it as a submmodule in main (better for emacs package managers among other things).
 
## notmuch

+    Add hooks for retagging:
   + pre-tag: Called before tagging messages
   + post-tag: Called after messages got tagged

     This might be useful if you want to sync for example your Maildirs with the notmuch tags.

+    Allow a custom location for .notmuch

     The notmuch index is currently saved in .notmuch under the user's
     Maildir and there's no configuration option to change that.

     This is problematic with both tools that sync Maildirs and with IMAP
     servers that consider .notmuch a Maildir subfolder (e.g. dovecot)

     A better solution would be to add a configuration option for this so
     that it can be put e.g. in ~/.notmuch

+    Add a list or pattern for subfolders to ignore

     Some people are crazy enough to archive e.g. their Spam in their
     Maildir and perhaps they'd prefer not having them indexed on notmuch.

     Having a configuration option to exclude or include certain subparts of
     the user's Maildir would be a very nice feature to have.

+    Index more headers.  Some desired headers:

  + Received: allows for searches based on the arrival path
  + Reply-To: allows for searches based on the return address

+    Allow anchors in searches

     `notmuch search from:domain.org$` only matches if "domain.org" is
     at the end of the From: header

     `notmuch search from:^username` only matches if "username" is at
     the beginning of the From: header (right after the ':')

     This leaves the interesting question if we want a way to bind to
     the actual address component.

+    Add folder tags to mail automatically

     Add the name of the IMAP folder as the tag for mails.  This way,
     server-side filtering can be directly used by notmuch to tag all
     incoming mail.

+    Make message store code modular

     Notmuch is built on the assumption that the message store is a
     collection of message files in directories (roughly Maildir
     format). This performs suboptimally for a wide range of systems,
     especially with large numbers of messages. Modularising the
     message store code to move this assumption into the implementation
     rather than the interface would allow adding support for different
     message stores like the traditional [mbox
     formats](http://homepage.ntlworld.com./jonathan.deboynepollard/FGA/mail-mbox-formats.html)
     as well as more experimental approaches like using git as an object
     storage (similar to how [[nmbug]] operates).

+    Put content of all non-multipart content-types in results of `notmuch show --format=json ...`

     In the JSON-format output of the `show` command, only text/plain
     parts' content is included.  Including the content of parts having any
     non-multipart content-type would assist with those who wished to access
     their mail through notmuch's `show` command (because of having written
     their MUA in a language with no library bindings or access to them
     [e.g. Perl, Lua or shell]) and also had a mailcap or similar MIME-type
     mapping system with which to actually view HTML files, images and the like.

## 3rd party apps

### notmuchsync

NOTE: most of notmuchsync's functionality has been integrated in
      notmuch 0.5. It probably doesn't make much sense to requests
      features for it, rather than notmuch itself.

+    DONE: id:"878w8niy83.fsf@SSpaeth.de"
     Add feature to move files in the maildir hierarchy

     `notmuchsync --move "searchstring" "targetfolder"`

     Where searchstring is any valid notmuch search

