[[!img notmuch-logo.png alt="Notmuch logo" class="left"]]

Notmuch is a great mail indexing tool that can also be used *in conjunction*
with existing Mail User Agents (MUA) instead of replacing them. The advantage of
such mixed solutions is that users can benefit from notmuch features (such as
full-text search and thread reconstruction) without *having to* change MUA.

A popular geek MUA is [the Mutt e-mail client](http://www.mutt.org); integrating
notmuch with Mutt is not seamless, but fairly straightforward. There are two
principal possibilities, either using a patched mutt that handles internally
notmuch, or use a sets of scripts/handler within mutt to achieve something close.

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Using Notmuch with the good old mutt

There's a page about the [[notmuch-mutt]] scripts that are distributed along
with notmuch, in its contrib directory.

# Using Notmuch with mutt-kz

Here is a tip about how to set up [mutt-kz](https://github.com/karelzak/mutt-kz), a fork
of the mutt MUA with support of notmuch integrated.

## Install:

You'll need to first have notmuch installed and the notmuch library available to 
configure. Otherwise, it is a good old autoconf setup, so here it goes:

        git clone https://github.com/karelzak/mutt-kz.git
        cd mutt-kz
        ./configure && make && make install

## Configuration:

Here is my `.muttrc` I use with `mutt-kz`, explainations as comments:

        # notmuch
        set nm_default_uri="notmuch:///PATH/TO/MY/Maildir" # path to the maildir
        set virtual_spoolfile=yes                          # enable virtual folders
        set sendmail="/PATH/TO/bin/nm_sendmail"            # enables parsing of outgoing mail
        virtual-mailboxes \
            "INBOX"     "notmuch://?query=tag:INBOX and NOT tag:archive"\
            "Unread"    "notmuch://?query=tag:unread"\
            "Starred"   "notmuch://?query=tag:*"\
            "Sent"      "notmuch://?query=tag:sent"        # sets up queries for virtual folders
        # notmuch bindings
        macro index \\\\ "<vfolder-from-query>"              # looks up a hand made query
        macro index A "<modify-labels>+archive -unread -inbox\\n"        # tag as Archived
        macro index I "<modify-labels>-inbox -unread\\n"                 # removed from inbox
        macro index S "<modify-labels-then-hide>-inbox -unread +junk\\n" # tag as Junk mail
        macro index + "<modify-labels>+*\\n<sync-mailbox>"               # tag as starred
        macro index - "<modify-labels>-*\\n<sync-mailbox>"               # tag as unstarred
        # sidebar
        set sidebar_width   = 20
        set sidebar_visible = yes               # set to "no" to disable sidebar view at startup
        color sidebar_new yellow default
        # sidebar bindings
        bind index <left> sidebar-prev          # got to previous folder in sidebar
        bind index <right> sidebar-next         # got to next folder in sidebar
        bind index <space> sidebar-open         # open selected folder from sidebar
        # sidebar toggle
        macro index ,@) "<enter-command> set sidebar_visible=no; macro index ~ ,@( 'Toggle sidebar'<Enter>"
        macro index ,@( "<enter-command> set sidebar_visible=yes; macro index ~ ,@) 'Toggle sidebar'<Enter>"
        macro index ~ ,@( 'Toggle sidebar'      # toggle the sidebar

There is no major difference with the standard mutt. Just a new concept (and URL) the
virtual folder, that is addressed as `notmuch://`, a few new settings and commands.

## Using:

when you open `mutt` you get the INBOX opened. There you can crawl through your
mails, and tag them as appropriate, either manually using the " ` " command, or using
the bindings defined in configuration (such as A/I/S/+/-).

## Mail tagging on sending

You may have noticed in `mutt-kz`'s configuration that I set the `sendmail` variable
of mutt to a `nm_sendmail` script. This is for tagging outgoing mail each time I send
a mail. Here is the content of the script (which may be used directly in mutt's 
variable, I did not try). 

Source of `nm_sendmail`:

        #!/bin/bash
        tee >(notmuch-deliver -t sent -f Sent) | sendmail $*

## Mail filtering/tagging

For mail tagging on arrival, I prefer to use a simple procmail delivery along with 
notmuch-delivery (which can be compiled in the `contrib/` directory of notmuch's sources).

Of course, you could use formail or maildrop, instead of procmail, but it is flexible
enough for my needs, and here is an example of configuration that can be useful:

        PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin

        # ensure each mail is unique
        :0 Wh: msgid.lock
        | formail -D 8192 msgid.cache

        # update addressbook with current mail
        :0 Wh
        | /usr/local/bin/notmuch_abook update

        NOINBOX="-r inbox"
        TAGS=""

        # manage dynamic tagging, using the ' + ' token in mail addresses
        # e.g.: user+TAG@fqdn.tld will generate the tag TAG
        :0:notmuch.lock
        * ^TO\/user\+[a-z0-9]+@fqdn\.tld
        * MATCH ?? ^user\+\/[a-z0-9]+
        {
        TAGS="-t ${MATCH}"
        }

        # match all mails from mailing-lists, don't let them go to inbox, but tag them with ml
        :0:notmuch.lock
        * ^List-[Ii][dD]:.*
        {
        TAGS="${TAGS} -t ml -r inbox"
        }

        # tag all mails coming from mutt-kz mailing list
        :0:notmuch.lock
        * .*mutt-kz\.lists\.fedoraproject\.org.*
        | notmuch-deliver $TAGS -t mutt -t notmuch

        # tag all mails coming from notmuch mailing list
        :0:notmuch.lock
        * .*notmuch\.notmuchmail\.org.*
        | notmuch-deliver $TAGS -t notmuch

        # Mark all spams as junk mail
        :0:notmuch.lock
        * ^X-Spam-Status: Yes
        | notmuch-deliver -t junk

        :0:notmuch.lock
        * ^Subject: .*SPAM.*
        | notmuch-deliver -t junk

        ### All unmatched mails
        :0:notmuch.lock
        * .*
        | notmuch-deliver -v $TAGS 

there's a line that updates the addressbook with addresses of current mail, and you'll
be able to read more about it on the [[vimtips]] page.

