[[!img notmuch-logo.png alt="Notmuch logo" class="left"]]
# Notmuch Screenshots

## Notmuch Emacs UI

### Hello View

The hello view is a welcome screen giving an overview of saved and recent
searches.

[[!img notmuch-hello.png alt="Hello View"]]

### Jump Search

The jump search, bound to `j`, works from all views. Quickly access your most
important saved searches from anywhere, with configurable jump keys.

[[!img notmuch-jump-search.png alt="Jump Search"]]

### Search View

The search results, one line per thread. Highlights and colors are configurable,
including images for tags (like the star). Search anywhere using the `s` key.

[[!img notmuch-search.png alt="Search View"]]

### Show View

Show view displaying a thread, with most messages collapsed. Quoted parts are
colored, signature is hidden by default. Tags added/removed in this buffer are
highlighted.

[[!img notmuch-show.png alt="Show View"]]

### Show View: Collapsed

Show view displaying a thread, with all messages collapsed. The subject for each
mail is shown only if it's different from its parent in the thread.

[[!img notmuch-show-collapsed.png alt="Show View: Collapsed"]]

### Show View: Citation

Show view displaying a message, with long citations collapsed.

[[!img notmuch-show-citation.png alt="Show View: Citation"]]

### Show View: Patch

Show view displaying a message which includes a patch.

[[!img notmuch-show-patch.png alt="Show View: Patch"]]

### Tree View

The tree view displays search results with one message per line, with thread
structure. Use 'z' to search when you want the results in tree view.

[[!img notmuch-tree.png alt="Tree View"]]

### Split Tree View

The tree view has a split view with threaded search results and a single-message
view.

[[!img notmuch-tree-split.png alt="Split Tree View"]]

### Help

Every view in has help accessible via `?`.

[[!img notmuch-help.png alt="Help"]]

### Customization

All configuration is available via the customization interface.

[[!img notmuch-customize.png alt="Customization"]]
