[[!img notmuch-logo.png alt="Notmuch logo" class="left"]]
# Tips and Tricks for using Notmuch with vim

Tips for using Notmuch with vim; these may be applicable when using vim with
[[notmuch-mutt]], [mutt-kz](https://github.com/karelzak/mutt-kz), or
[notmuch-vim](http://git.notmuchmail.org/git/notmuch/blob/HEAD:/vim/README).

[[!toc levels=2]]

## Install the vim addon for Notmuch

Before you can run Notmuch within vim, you must install notmuch as a vim addon.

For example, if you have installed from the debian package:

    $ sudo apt-get install notmuch-vim

then to install as an addon, run this command:

    $ vim-addon-manager install notmuch

## Run Notmuch within vim

Open vim and type

    :Notmuch

and press ENTER. Voila.


Alternatively, you can invoce vim with the -c flag:

    $ vim -c :Notmuch

## Addressbook management and vim

There are some emacs tips over [[here|emacstips#index15h2]] that
explains how to configure emacs with an addressbook, but the few solutions were not fast enough
for me. And I never could test the vala-based code. So I updated the notmuch\_addresses code to
use a cache to be able to make better matches and still be lightning fast.

And finally, [I needed](http://i.got.nothing.to/blog/2013/03/20/how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-love-the-mail/) to have a way to autocomplete my recipients' addresses
automagically from within `vim`. So that's why I created the [notmuch\_abook](https://github.com/guyzmo/notmuch-abook) code.
You can either install it as a plugin in vim, using vundle:

        Vundle 'guyzmo/notmuch-abook'

Or if you're not using vim (which is objectively the best editor ever), you may
want to use it as standalone:

        % pip install notmuch_abook

To configure the address book, append to `~/.notmuch-config` the following:

        % cat >> ~/.notmuch-config << EOF

        [addressbook]
        path=/home/YOURUSERNAME/.notmuch-abook.db
        backend=sqlite3

        EOF

where YOURUSERNAME is your home directory. Then, you can sync the addressbook cache
by running. It will create the database file specified in configuration, and go through
all notmuch's indexed mails to get all addresses headers and cache them. It takes around
20 seconds on my 10000 mails index:

        % notmuch_abook create

And you can query for addresses using the lookup command, which will match the beginning
of each word in the name and address, as follows:

        % notmuch_abook lookup Foo
        Foobar Bar <bar@bar.com>
        Bar Foobar <bar@bar.com>
        Bar Bar <foobar@bar.com>
        Bar Bar <bar@foobar.com>
        Bar Bar <bar@bar.foo>

If you're using vim, when you edit a mail having a filetype set to mail, you will be
able to open a completion menu when you do <C-x><C-u> at every address header.
