[[!meta date="2012-01-13"]]

Notmuch 0.11 (2012-01-13)
=========================

Command-Line Interface
----------------------

* **_Hooks_**

  Hooks have been introduced to notmuch. Hooks are scripts that notmuch
  invokes before and after certain actions. Initially, `notmuch new`
  supports `pre-new` and `post-new` hooks that are run before and after
  importing new messages into the database.

* **_`notmuch reply --decrypt bugfix`_**

  The `notmuch reply` command with `--decrypt` argument had a rarely
  occurring bug that caused an encrypted message not to be decrypted
  sometimes. This is now fixed.

Performance
-----------

* **_Automatic tag query optimization_**

  "notmuch tag" now automatically optimizes the user's query to
  exclude messages whose tags won't change.  In the past, we've
  suggested that people do this by hand; this is no longer necessary.

* **_Don't sort messages when creating a dump file_**

  This speeds up tag dumps considerably, without any loss of
  information. To replicate the old behavior of sorted output (for
  example to compare two dump files), one can use e.g. `sort(1)`.

Memory Management
-----------------

* **_Reduction of memory leaks_**

  Two memory leaks when searching and showing messages were identified
  and fixed in this release.

Emacs Interface
---------------

* **_Bug fixes_**

  notmuch-show-advance (bound to the spacebar in notmuch-show-mode) had
  a bug that caused it to always jump to the next message, even if it
  should have scrolled down to show more of the current message instead.
  This is now fixed.

* **_Support `notmuch new` as a notmuch-poll-script_**

  It's now possible to use `notmuch new` as a notmuch-poll-script
  directly. This is also the new default. This allows taking better
  advantage of the `notmuch new` hooks from emacs without intermediate
  scripts.

* **_Improvements in saved search management_**

  New saved searches are now appended to the list of saved searches,
  not inserted in front. It's also possible to define a sort function
  for displaying saved searches; alphabetical sort is provided.

* **_Hooks for notmuch-hello_**

  Two new hooks have been added: "notmuch-hello-mode-hook" (called after
  entering notmuch-hello-mode) and "notmuch-hello-refresh-hook" (called
  after updating a notmuch-hello buffer).

* **_New face for crypto parts headers_**

  Crypto parts used to be displayed with a hardcoded color. A new face
  has been introduced to fix this: notmuch-crypto-part-header. It
  defaults to the same value as before, but can be customized to match
  other color themes.

* **_Use space as default thousands separator_**

  Large numbers in notmuch-hello are now displayed using a space as
  thousands separator (e.g. "123 456" instead of "123,456"). This can be
  changed by customizing "notmuch-hello-thousands-separator".

* **_Call notmuch-show instead of notmuch-search when clicking on
  buttonized id: links._**

* **_New function notmuch-show-advance_**

  This new function advances through just the current thread, and is
  less invasive than notmuch-show-advance-and-archive.  It can easily
  be bound to SPC with:

	    (define-key notmuch-show-mode-map " " 'notmuch-show-advance)

* **_Various performance improvements_**

New add-on tool
---------------

The tool `contrib/notmuch-deliver` helps with initial delivery and
tagging of mail (replacing running `notmuch new`).
