[[!meta date="2012-08-20"]]

Notmuch 0.14 (2012-08-20)
=========================

General bug fixes
-----------------

### Maildir tag synchronization

Maildir flag-to-tag synchronization now applies only to messages in
maildir-like directory structures.  Previously, it applied to any
message that had a maildir "info" part, which meant it could
incorrectly synchronize tags for non-maildir messages, while at the
same time failing to synchronize tags for newly received maildir
messages (typically causing new messages to not receive the "unread"
tag).

Command-Line Interface
----------------------

The deprecated positional output file argument to `notmuch dump` has
been replaced with an `--output` option. The input file positional
argument to `notmuch restore` has been replaced with an `--input`
option for consistency with dump.  These changes simplify the syntax
of dump/restore options and make them more consistent with other
notmuch commands.

Emacs Interface
---------------

### Search results now get re-colored when tags are updated

### The formatting of tags in search results can now be customized

Previously, attempting to change the format of tags in
`notmuch-search-result-format` would usually break tagging from
search-mode.  We no longer make assumptions about the format.

### Experimental support for multi-line search result formats

It is now possible to embed newlines in
`notmuch-search-result-format` to make individual search results
span multiple lines.

### Next/previous in search and show now move by boundaries

All "next" and "previous" commands in the search and show modes now
move to the next/previous result or message boundary.  This doesn't
change the behavior of "next", but "previous" commands will first
move to the beginning of the current result or message if point is
inside the result or message.

### Search now uses the JSON format internally

This should address problems with unusual characters in authors and
subject lines that could confuse the old text-based search parser.

### The date shown in search results is no longer padded before applying user-specified formatting

Previously, the date in the search results was padded to fixed width
before being formatted with `notmuch-search-result-format`.  It is
no longer padded.  The default format has been updated, but if
you've customized this variable, you may have to change your date
format from `"%s "` to `"%12s "`.

The thread-id for the `target-thread` argument for `notmuch-search` should
now be supplied without the "thread:" prefix.
