[[!meta date="2011-11-23"]]

Notmuch 0.10 (2011-11-23)
=========================

New build and testing features
------------------------------

Emacs tests are now done in `dtach`. This means that dtach is now
needed to run the notmuch test suite, at least until the checking for
prerequisites is improved.

Full test coverage of the stashing feature in Emacs.

New command-line features
-------------------------

### Add `notmuch restore --accumulate` option

The `--accumulate` switch causes the union of the existing and new tags to
be applied, instead of replacing each message's tags as they are read in
from the dump file.

### Add search terms to `notmuch dump`

The dump command now takes an optional search term much like notmuch
search/show/tag. The output file argument of dump is deprecated in
favour of using stdout.

### Add `notmuch search` `--offset` and `--limit` options

The search command now takes options `--offset=[-]N` and `--limit=N` to
limit the number of results shown.

### Add `notmuch count --output` option

The count command is now capable of counting threads in addition to
messages. This is selected using the new `--output=(threads|messages)`
option.

New emacs UI features
---------------------

### Add tab-completion for `notmuch-search` and `notmuch-search-filter`

These functions now support completion tags for query parts
starting with "tag:".

### Turn "id:MSG-ID" links into buttons associated with notmuch searches

Text of the form "id:MSG-ID" in mails is now a clickable button that
opens a notmuch search for the given message id.

### Add keybinding ('c I') for stashing Message-ID's without an id: prefix

Reduces manual labour when stashing them for use outside notmuch.

### Do not query on `notmuch-search` exit

It is harmless to kill the external notmuch process, so the user
is no longer interrogated when they interrupt a search.

Performance
-----------

### Emacs now constructs large search buffers more efficiently

### Search avoids opening and parsing message files

We now store more information in the database so search no longer
has to open every message file to get basic headers.  This can
improve search speed by as much as 10X, but taking advantage of this
requires a database rebuild:

        notmuch dump > notmuch.dump
        # Backup, then remove notmuch database ($MAIL/.notmuch)
        notmuch new
        notmuch restore notmuch.dump

New collection of add-on tools
------------------------------

The source directory "contrib" contains tools built on notmuch.  These
tools are not part of notmuch, and you should check their individual
licenses.  Feel free to report problems with them to the notmuch
mailing list.

### nmbug - share tags with a given prefix

nmbug helps maintain a git repo containing all tags with a given
prefix (by default "notmuch::"). Tags can be shared by committing
them to git in one location and restoring in another.
