[[!meta date="2025-03-15"]]

Notmuch 0.39 (2025-03-15)
=========================

General
-------

Allow to customize the separator between individual and matched and
non-matched authors when showing threads. See
`search.authors_separator` and `search.authors_matched_separator` in
notmuch-config(1).

Library
-------

Make the s-expression query parser thread-safe.

Emacs
-----

The new variable `untrusted-content` is now (conditionally) set in
relevant modes.

Add `notmuch-mua-subject-regexp` to help avoid sending erroneous
subjects.

Allow toggling display of excluded messages.

Fix for text/calendar display. Fix for subject sanitizing in tree
mode. Fix for hl-line location in search and tree mode. Fix for
interaction with which-func-mode and imenu. Fix for saving hidden
headers in drafts.

Support for Emacs older than 27.1 is deprecated with this release.

Legacy Python Bindings
----------------------

The legacy python bindings previously in `bindings/python` are no
longer supported. These bindings have been deprecated since 2020. As
of this release they are no longer built or tested, and patches for
them will no longer be accepted. They have been moved to `contrib` to
smooth the transition. Thanks very much to Sebastian Spaeth and all of
the other contributors to these bindings over the years.

Python Bindings
---------------

Adapt python-cffi version handling to stricter version constraints in
setuptools.

Fix iterator related segfaults.

Ruby Bindings
-------------

Fix for warnings about "undefining the allocator of T_DATA".

Test Suite
----------

Adapt test suite for changes in Emacs 30.1 and GnuPG 2.4 series.
