[[!meta date="2011-10-01"]]

Notmuch 0.9 (2011-10-01)
========================

New, general features
---------------------

Correct handling of interruptions during "notmuch new"

  "notmuch new" now operates as a series of small, self-consistent
  transactions, so it can correctly resume after an interruption or
  crash.  Previously, interruption could lose existing tags, fail to
  detect messages on resume, or leave the database in a state
  temporarily or permanently inconsistent with the mail store.

Library changes
---------------

New functions

  notmuch\_database\_begin\_atomic and notmuch\_database\_end\_atomic allow
  multiple database operations to be performed atomically.

  notmuch\_database\_find\_message\_by\_filename does exactly what it says.

API changes

  notmuch\_database\_find\_message (and n\_d\_f\_m\_by\_filename) now return
  a status indicator and uses an output parameter for the
  message. This change required changing the SONAME of libnotmuch to
  libnotmuch.so.2

Python bindings changes
-----------------------

  - Re-encode python unicode objects to utf-8 before passing back to
    libnotmuch.
  - Support Database().begin\_atomic()/end\_atomic()
  - Support Database().find\_message\_by\_filename()
    NB! This needs a db opened in READ-WRITE mode currently, or it will crash
    the python process. The is a limitation (=bug) of the underlying libnotmuch.
  - Fixes where we would not throw NotmuchErrors when we should (Justus Winter)
  - Update for n\_d\_find\_message* API changes (see above).

Ruby bindings changes
---------------------

  - Wrap new library functions notmuch\_database\_{begin,end}\_atomic.
  - Add new exception Notmuch::UnbalancedAtomicError.
  - Rename destroy  to destroy! according to Ruby naming conventions.
  - Update for n\_d\_find\_message* API changes (see above).

Emacs improvements
------------------

  * Add gpg callback to crypto sigstatus buttons to retrieve/refresh
    signing key.
  * Add notmuch-show-refresh-view function (and corresponding binding)
    to refresh the view of a notmuch-show buffer.

Reply formatting cleanup
------------------------

  "notmuch reply" no longer includes notification that non-leafnode
  MIME parts are being suppressed.
