[[!meta date="2013-08-03"]]

Notmuch 0.16 (2013-08-03)
=========================

Command-Line Interface
----------------------

### Support for delivering messages to Maildir

There is a new command `insert` that adds a message to a Maildir
folder and notmuch index.

### `notmuch count --batch` option

`notmuch count` now supports batch operations similar to `notmuch
tag`. This is mostly an optimization for remote notmuch usage.

### `notmuch tag` option to remove all tags from matching messages

`notmuch tag --remove-all` option has been added to remove all tags
from matching messages. This can be combined with adding new tags,
resulting in setting (rather than modifying) the tags of the
messages.

### Decrypting commands explicitly expect a gpg-agent

Decryption in `notmuch show` and `notmuch reply` has only ever
worked with a functioning gpg-agent. This is now made explicit in
code and documentation. The functional change is that it's now
possible to have gpg-agent running, but gpg "use-agent"
configuration option disabled, not forcing the user to use the agent
everywhere.

### Configuration file saves follow symbolic links

The notmuch commands that save the configuration file now follow
symbolic links instead of overwrite them.

### Top level option to specify configuration file

It's now possible to specify the configuration file to use on the
command line using the `notmuch --config=FILE` option.

### Bash command-line completion

The notmuch command-line completion support for the bash shell has
been rewritten. Supported completions include all the notmuch
commands, command-line arguments, values for keyword arguments,
search prefixes (such as "subject:" or "from:") in all commands that
use search terms, tags after + and - in `notmuch tag`, tags after
"tag:" prefix, user's email addresses after "from:" and "to:"
prefixes, and config options (and some config option values) in
`notmuch config`. The new completion support depends on the
bash-completion package.

Deprecated commands "part" and "search-tags" are removed.

Emacs Interface
---------------

### New keymap to view/save parts; removed s/v/o/| part button bindings

The commands to view, save, and open MIME parts are now prefixed
with "." (". s" to save, ". v" to view, etc) and can be invoked with
point anywhere in a part, unlike the old commands, which were
restricted to part buttons.  The old "s"/"v"/"o"/"|" commands on
part buttons have been removed since they clashed with other
bindings (notably "s" for search!) and could not be invoked when
there was no part button.  The new, prefixed bindings appear in
show's help, so you no longer have to memorize them.

### Default part save directory is now `mm-default-directory`

Previously, notmuch offered to save parts and attachments to a mix
of `mm-default-directory`, `mailcap-download-directory`, and `~/`.
This has been standardized on `mm-default-directory`.

### Key bindings for next/previous thread

Show view has new key bindings M-n and M-p to move to the next and
previous thread in the search results.

### Better handling of errors in search buffers

Instead of interleaving errors in search result buffers, search mode
now reports errors in the minibuffer.

### Faster search and show

Communication between Emacs and the notmuch CLI is now more
efficient because it uses the CLI's S-expression support.  As a
result, search mode should now fill search buffers faster and
threads should show faster.

### No Emacs 22 support

The Emacs 22 support added late 2010 was sufficient only for a short
period of time. After being incomplete for roughly 2 years the code
in question was now removed from this release.

Vim Front-End
-------------

The vim based front-end has been replaced with a new one that uses the Ruby
bindings. The old font-end is available in the contrib subfolder.

Python Bindings
---------------

Fix loading of libnotmuch shared library on OS X (Darwin) systems.
