[[!meta date="2015-10-29"]]

Notmuch 0.21 (2015-10-29)
=========================

General
-------

Notmuch now requires gmime >= 2.6.7. The gmime 2.4 series is no longer
supported.

### Database revision tracking: `lastmod:` queries

Each message now has a metadata revision number that increases with
every tagging operation. See the discussion of `lastmod:` in
`notmuch-search-terms(7)` for more information.

### Date queries now support `date:<expr>..!` shorthand for `date:<expr>..<expr>`

You can use, for example, `date:yesterday..!` to match from the
beginning of yesterday to the end of yesterday. For further details,
please refer to the `notmuch-search-terms` manual page.

### Notmuch database upgrade to support `lastmod:` queries

The above mentioned `lastmod:` prefix. This will be done
automatically, without prompting on the next time `notmuch new` is
run after the upgrade. The upgrade is not reversible, and the
upgraded database will not be readable by older versions of
Notmuch. As a safeguard, a database dump will be created in the
`.notmuch` directory before upgrading.

Build System
------------

The ruby bindings are now built as part of the main notmuch build
process. This can be disabled with the `--without-ruby` option to
configure.

Building the documentation can be disabled with the `--without-docs`
option to configure.

Skipped individual tests are no longer considered as failures.

Command Line Interface
----------------------

### Database revision tracking

Two new options were added to support revision tracking. A global
option "--uuid" (`notmuch(1)`) was added for to detect counter
rollover and reinitialization, and `notmuch-count(1)` gained a
`--lastmod` option to query database revision tracking data.

### The `notmuch address` command supports new deduplication schemes

`notmuch address` has gained a new `--deduplicate` option to specify
how the results should be deduplicated, if at all. The alternatives
are `no` (do not deduplicate, useful for processing the results with
external tools), `mailbox` (deduplicate based on the full, case
sensitive name and email address), and `address` (deduplicate based
on the case insensitive address part). See the `notmuch-address`
manual page for further information.

Emacs Interface
---------------

### `notmuch-emacs-version` is used in `User-Agent` header

The value of recently introduced variable `notmuch-emacs-version` is
now used as a part of `User-Agent` header when sending emails.

### Removed `notmuch-version` function by renaming it to `notmuch-cli-version`

With existing variable `notmuch-emacs-version` the accompanied
function which retrieves the version of `notmuch-command` is
better named as `notmuch-cli-version`.

### Query input now supports completion for "is:<tag>"

### New message composition mode: `notmuch-compose-mode`

This is mainly to fix fcc handling, but may be useful for user
customization as well.

### Allow filtering of search results in `notmuch-show`

### Add function to rerun current tree-view search in search mode

### Bug fix for replying to encrypted messages in `notmuch-tree` mode

### Allow saved searched to specify tree view rather than search view

Applies to saved searches run from `notmuch-hello`, or by a keyboard
shortcut (`notmuch-jump`).  Can be set in the customize interface, or
by adding :search-type tree to the appropriate saved search plist in
`notmuch-saved-searches`.

### Increase maximum size of rendered text parts

The variable `notmuch-show-max-text-part-size` controls the maximum
size (in bytes) which is automatically rendered. This may make
rendering large threads slower. To get the previous behaviour set
this variable to 10000.

Library
-------

### The use of absolute paths is now enforced when calling `notmuch_database_{open, create}`

### New function `notmuch_directory_delete` to delete directory documents

Previously there was no way to delete directory documents from the
database, leading to confusing results when the "ghost" directory
document of a renamed or deleted filesystem directory was
encountered every time the parent directory was being scanned by
`notmuch new`. The mtime of the old directory document was also used
if a directory by the same name was added again in the filesystem,
potentially bypassing the scan for the directory. The issues are
fixed by providing a library call to delete directory documents, and
deleting the old documents in `notmuch new` on filesystem directory
removal or rename.

### Database revision tracking

Revision tracking is supported via a new prefix "lastmod:" in the
query parser and the new function
`notmuch_database_get_revision`. For the latter, see `notmuch(3)`.

### New status code returning API for n_query_count_{messages,threads}

### Deprecated functions

`notmuch_query_search_threads`, `notmuch_query_search_messages`,
`notmuch_query_count_messages`, and `notmuch_query_count_threads`
are all deprecated as of this release.  Clients are encouraged to
transition to the `_st` variants supporting better error reporting.

nmbug-status
------------

`nmbug-status` now supports specifying the sort order for each view.
