[[!meta date="2019-06-07"]]

Notmuch 0.29 (2019-06-07)
=========================

General
-------

Add "body:" field to allow searching for terms that occur only in the
message body. Users will need to reindex their mail to take advantage
of this feature.

Add support for indexing user specified headers (e.g. List-Id). See
notmuch-config(1) for details. This requires reindexing after changing
the set of headers to be indexed.

Fix bug for searching in some headers for Xapian keywords in quoted
strings.

Add support for gzip compressed mail messages (/not/ multi-message
mboxes); e.g. `gzip -9 $MAIL/archive/giant-message && notmuch new`
should work. Note that maildir flag syncing for gzipped messages is
currently untested.

Notmuch is now capable of indexing, searching and rendering
cryptographically-protected Subject: headers of the form produced by
Enigmail and K-9 mail in encrypted messages.

Command Line Interface
----------------------

`notmuch show` now supports `--body=false` and `--include-html` with
`--format=text`.

Fix several performance problems with `notmuch reindex`.

`notmuch show` and `notmuch reply` now emit per-message cryptographic
status in their json and sexp output formats.  See devel/schemata for
more details about what is included there.  This status includes
information about cryptographic protections for the Subject header.

Emacs
-----

Optionally check for missing attachements in outgoing messages (see
function `notmuch-mua-attachment-check`).

Bind `B` to browse URLs in current message.

Bind `g` to refresh the current notmuch buffer.

Editing a message as new now includes an FCC header.

Forwarded messages are now tagged as +forwarded (customizable).

Add references header to link forwarded message to thread of original
message.

The minimum supported major version of Emacs is now 24.

Support for GNU Emacs older than 25.1 is deprecated with this release,
and may be removed in a future release.

Notmuch-emacs documentation is somewhat expanded. More contributions
are very welcome.

Build System
------------

Notmuch release tarballs are now compressed with `xz`.

We now provide conventional detached signatures of the release
tarballs in addition to the signed `sha256sum` files.

Dependencies
------------

Support for GMime 2.6 is removed. The minimum supported version of
GMime is now 3.0.3.  GMime also needs to have been compiled with
cryptography support.

Test Suite
----------

If either GNU parallel or moreutils parallel is installed, the tests
in the test suite will now be run in parallel (one per available
core).  This can be disabled with NOTMUCH_TEST_SERIALIZE=1.
