[[!meta date="2022-04-25"]]

Notmuch 0.36 (2022-04-25)
=========================

Library
-------

Add the `sexp` prefix to the infix (traditional) query parser. This
allows specific subqueries to be parsed by the sexp parser (with
appropropriate quoting). See `notmuch-search-terms(7)` for details.

Add another heuristic to regexp fields to prevent phrase parsing of
bracketed sub-expressions.

Command Line Interface
----------------------

Envelope from ("From ") headers are now escaped as X-Envelope-From: in
input to `notmuch-insert`. This prevents creating mbox files when
calling `notmuch-insert` from e.g. `postfix`.

Python (CFFI) Bindings
----------------------

Use the `config_pairs` API in ConfigIterator. This returns all
matching key-value pairs, not just those that happen to be stored in
the database.

Documentation
-------------

Reorganize documention for `notmuch-config`. Add a few links from
other man pages.

Emacs
-----

Bind the usual undo key sequences to new command
"notmuch-tag-undo". This allows transparent undo of tagging
operations.

Tests
-----

Fix smime.4 with newer gmime. Unset `XDG_DATA_HOME` and `MAILDIR` for tests.

New add-on tool: notmuch-web
-----------------------------

The new devel/ tool `notmuch-web` is a very thin web client.  It
supports a full search interface for one user: there is no facility
for multiple users provided today.  See the notmuch-web README file
for more information.

Be careful about running it on a network-connected system: it will
expose a web interface that requires no authentication but exposes
your mail store.
