Notmuch 0.3 (2010-04-27)
========================
New command-line features
-------------------------
User-configurable tags for new messages

  A new "new.tags" option is available in the configuration file to
  determine which tags are applied to new messages. Run "notmuch
  setup" to generate new documentation within ~/.notmuch-config on how
  to specify this value.

Threads search results named based on subjects that match search

  This means that when new mails arrived to a thread you've previously
  read, and the new mails have a new subject, you will see that
  subject in the search results rather than the old subject.

Faster operation of "notmuch tag" (avoid unneeded sorting)

  Since the user just wants to tag all matching messages, we can make
  things perform a bit faster by avoiding the sort.

Even Better guessing of From: header for "notmuch reply"

  Notmuch now looks at a number of headers when trying to figure out
  the best From: header to use in a reply. This is helpful if you have
  several configured email addresses, and you also subscribe to various
  mailing lists with different addresses, (so that mails you are
  replying to won't always include your subscribed address in the To:
  header).

Indication of author names that match a search

  When notmuch displays threads as the result of a search, it now
  lists the authors that match the search before listing the other
  authors in the thread. It inserts a pipe '|' symbol between the last
  matching and first non-matching author. This is especially useful in
  a search that includes tag:unread. Now the authors of the unread
  messages in the thread are listed first.

New: Python bindings
--------------------
Sebastian Spaeth has contributed his python bindings for the notmuch
library to the central repository. These bindings were previously
known as "cnotmuch" within python but have now been renamed to be
accessible with a simple, and more official-looking "import notmuch".

The bindings have already proven very useful as people proficient in
python have been able to easily develop programs to do notmuch-based
searches for email-address completion, maildir-flag synchronization,
and other tasks.

These bindings are available within the bindings/python directory, but
are not yet integrated into the top-level Makefiles, nor the top-level
package-building scripts. Improvements are welcome.

Emacs interface improvements
----------------------------
An entirely new initial view for notmuch, (friendly yet powerful)

  Some of us call the new view "notmuch hello" but you can get at it
  by simply calling "emacs -f notmuch". The new view provides a search
  bar where new searches can be performed. It also displays a list of
  recent searches, along with a button to save any of these, giving it
  a new name as a "saved search". Many people find these "saved
  searches" one of the most convenient ways of organizing their mail,
  (providing all of the features of "folders" in other mail clients,
  but without any of the disadvantages).

  Finally, this view can also optionally display all of the tags that
  exist in the database, along with a count for each tag, and a custom
  search of messages with that tag that's simply a click (or keypress)
  away.

  Note: For users that liked the original mode of "emacs -f notmuch"
	immediately displaying a particular search result, we
	recommend instead running something like:

		emacs --eval '(notmuch search "tag:inbox" t)'

	The "t" means to sort the messages in an "oldest first" order,
	(as notmuch would do previously by default). You can also
	leave that off to have your search results in "newest first"
	order.

Full-featured "customize" support for configuring notmuch

  Notmuch now plugs in well to the emacs "customize" mode to make it
  much simpler to find things about the notmuch interface that can be
  tweaked by the user.

  You can get to this mode by starting at the main "Customize" menu in
  emacs, then browsing through "Applications", "Mail", and
  "Notmuch". Or you can go straight to "M-x customize-group"
  "notmuch".

  Once you're at the customize screen, you'll see a list of documented
  options that can be manipulated along with checkboxes, drop-down
  selectors, and text-entry boxes for configuring the various
  settings.

Support for doing tab-completion of email addresses

  This support currently relies on an external program,
  (notmuch-addresses), that is not yet shipped with notmuch
  itself. But multiple, suitable implementations of this program have
  already been written that generate address completions by doing
  notmuch searches of your email collection. For example, providing
  first those addresses that you have composed messages to in the
  past, etc.

  One such program (implemented in python with the python bindings to
  notmuch) is available via:

	git clone  http://jkr.acm.jhu.edu/git/notmuch_addresses.git

  Install that program as notmuch-addresses on your PATH, and then
  hitting TAB on a partial email address or name within the To: or Cc:
  line of an email message will provide matching completions.

Support for file-based (Fcc) delivery of sent messages to mail store

  This isn't yet enabled by default. To enable this, one will have to
  set the "Notmuch Fcc Dirs" setting within the notmuch customize
  screen, (see its documentation there for details). We anticipate
  making this automatic in a future release.

New 'G' key binding to trigger mail refresh (G == "Get new mail")

  The 'G' key works wherever '=' works. Before refreshing the screen
  it calls an external program that can be used to poll email servers,
  run notmuch new and setup specific tags for the new emails. The
  script to be called should be configured with the "Notmuch Poll
  Script" setting in the customize interface. This script will
  typically invoke "notmuch new" and then perhaps several "notmuch
  tag" commands.

Implement emacs message display with the JSON output from notmuch.

  This is much more robust than the previous implementation, (where
  some HTML mails and mail quoting the notmuch code with the delimiter
  characters in it would cause the parser to fall over).

Better handling of HTML messages and MIME attachments (inline images!)

  Allow for any MIME parts that emacs can display to be displayed
  inline. This includes inline viewing of image attachments, (provided
  the window is large enough to fit the image at its natural size).

  Much more robust handling of HTML messages. Currently both text/plain
  and text/html alternates will be rendered next to each other. In a
  future release, users will be able to decide to see only one or the
  other representation.

  Each attachment now has its own button so that attachments can be
  saved individually (the 'w' key is still available to save all
  attachments).

Customizable support for tidying of text/plain message content

  Many new functions are available for tidying up message
  content. These include options such as wrapping long lines,
  compressing duplicate blank lines, etc.

  Most of these are disabled by default, but can easily be enabled by
  clicking the available check boxes under the "Notmuch Show Insert
  Text/Plain Hook" within the notmuch customize screen.

New support for searchable citations (even when hidden)

  When portions of overly-long citations are hidden, the contents of
  these citations will still be available for emacs' standard
  "incremental search" functions. When the search matches any portion
  of a hidden citation, the citation will become visible temporarily
  to display the search result.

More flexible handling of header visibility

  As an answer to complaints from many users, the To, Cc, and Date
  headers of messages are no longer hidden by default. For those users
  that liked that these were hidden, a new "Notmuch Messages Headers
  Visible" option in the customize interface can be set to nil. The
  visibility of headers can still be toggled on a per-message basis
  with the 'h' keybinding.

  For users that don't want to see some subset of those headers, the
  new "Notmuch Message Headers" variable can be customized to list
  only those headers that should be present in the display of a message.

The Return key now toggles message visibility anywhere

  Previously this worked only on the first summary-line of a message.

Customizable formatting of search results

  The user can easily customize the order, width, and formatting of
  the various fields in a "notmuch search" buffer. See the "Notmuch
  Search Result Format" section of the customize interface.

Generate nicer names for search buffers when using a saved search.

Add a notmuch User-Agent header when sending mail from notmuch/emacs.

New keybinding (M-Ret) to open all collapsed messages in a thread.

New library feature
-------------------
Provide a new NOTMUCH_SORT_UNSORTED value for queries

  This can be somewhat faster when sorting simply isn't desired. For
  example when collecting a set of messages that will all be
  manipulated identically, (adding a tag, removing a tag, deleting the
  messages), then there's no advantage to sorting the messages by
  date.

Build fixes
-----------
Fix to compile against GMime 2.6

  Previously notmuch insisted on being able to find GMime 2.4, (even
  though GMime 2.6 would have worked all along).

Fix configure script to accept (and ignore) various standard options.

  For example, those that the Gentoo build scripts expect configure to
  accept are now all accepted.

Test suite
----------
A large number of new tests for the many new features.

Better display of output from failed tests.

  Now shows failures with diff rather than forcing the user to gaze at
  complete actual and expected output looking for deviation.
