[[!meta date="2016-04-26"]]

Notmuch 0.22 (2016-04-26)
=========================

General
-------

### Xapian 1.3 support

Notmuch should now build (and the test suite should pass) on recent
releases of Xapian 1.3.x. It has been tested with Xapian 1.3.5.

### Limited support for S/MIME messages

Signature verification is supported, but not decryption. S/MIME
signature creation and S/MIME encryption are supported via built-in
support in Emacs. S/MIME support is not extensively tested at this
time.

### Bug Fixes

 Fix for threading bug involving deleting and re-adding
 messages. Fix for case-sensitive content disposition headers. Fix
 handling of 1 character directory names at top level.

Command Line Interface
----------------------

### `notmuch show` now supports verifying S/MIME signatures

This support relies on an appropriately configured `gpgsm`.

Build System
------------

Drop dependency on "pkg-config emacs".

Emacs Interface
---------------

### Notmuch replies now include all parts shown in the show view

There are two main user visible changes. The first is that rfc822
parts are now included in replies.

The second change is that part headers are now included in the reply
buffer to provide visible separation of the parts. The choice of
which part headers to show is customizable via the variable
`notmuch-mua-reply-insert-header-p-function`.

### Filtering or Limiting messages is now bound to `l` in the search view

This binding now matches the analogous binding in show view.

### `F` forwards all open messages in a thread

When viewing a thread of messages, the new binding `F` can be used
to generate a new outgoing message which forwards all of the open
messages in the thread. This is analogous to the `f` binding, which
forwards only the current message.

### Preferred content type can be determined from the message content

More flexibility in choosing which sub-part of a
multipart/alternative part is initially shown is available by
setting `notmuch-multipart/alternative-discouraged` to a function
that returns a list of discouraged types. The function so specified
is passed the message as an argument and can examine the message
content to determine which content types should be discouraged. This
is in addition to the current capabilities (i.e. setting
`notmuch-multipart/alternative-discouraged` to a list of discouraged
types).

### When viewing a thread ("show" mode), queries that match no messages no longer generate empty buffers

Should an attempt be made to view the thread corresponding to a
query that matches no messages, a warning message is now displayed
and the terminal bell rung rather than displaying an empty buffer
(or, in some cases, displaying an empty buffer and throwing an
error). This also affects re-display of the current thread.

### Handle S/MIME signatures in emacs

The emacs interface is now capable making and verifying S/MIME
signatures.

### `notmuch-message-address-insinuate` is now a no-op

This reduces the amount of interference with non-notmuch uses of
message-mode.

### Address completion improvements

An external script is no longer needed for address completion; if
you previously configured one, customize the variable
`notmuch-address-command` to try the internal completion. If
`company-mode` is available, notmuch uses it by default for
interactive address completion.

### Test and experiment with the emacs MUA available in source tree

`./devel/try-emacs-mua` runs emacs and fills the window with
information how to try the MUA safely. Emacs is configured to use
the notmuch (lisp) files located in `./emacs` directory.

Documentation
-------------

New `notmuch-report(1)` and `notmuch-report.json(5)` man pages
describe `notmuch-report` and its JSON configuration file.  You can
build these files by running `make` in the `devel/nmbug/doc`
directory.

notmuch-report
--------------

Renamed from `nmbug-status`.  This script generates reports based on
notmuch queries, and doesn't really have anything to do with nmbug,
except for sharing the `NMBGIT` environment variable.  The new name
focuses on the script's action, instead of its historical association
with the nmbug workflow.  This should make it more discoverable for
users looking for generic notmuch reporting tools.

The default configuration file name (extracted from the `config`
branch of `NBMGIT` has changed from `status-config.json` to
`notmuch-report.json` so it is more obviously associated with the
report-generating script.  The configuration file also has a new
`meta.message-url` setting, which is documented in
`notmuch-report.json(5)`.

`notmuch-report` now wraps query phrases in parentheses when and-ing
them together, to avoid confusion about clause grouping.
