[[!meta date="2015-05-31"]]

Notmuch 0.20 (2015-05-31)
=========================

Command-Line Interface
----------------------

### There is a new `mimetype:` search prefix

The new `mimetype:` search prefix allows searching for the
content-type of attachments, which is now indexed. See the
`notmuch-search-terms` manual page for details.

### Path to gpg is now configurable

On systems with multiple versions of gpg, you can tell
notmuch which one to use by setting `crypto.gpg_path`

Emacs
-----

Avoid rendering large text attachments.

Improved rendering of CID references in HTML.

Vim
---

Vim client now respects excluded tags.

Notmuch-Mutt
------------

Support messages without Message-IDs.

Library
-------

### Undeprecate single message mboxes

It seems more trouble to remove this feature than expected, so
`notmuch new` will no longer nag about mboxes with a single message.

### New error logging facility

Clients should call `notmuch_database_status_string` to retrieve
output formerly printed to stderr.

### Several bug fixes related to stale iterators

### New status code returning API for n_query_search_{messages,thread}

### Fix for library `install_name` on Mac OS X

### Fix for rounding of seconds

Documentation
-------------

### Sphinx is now mandatory to build docs

Support for using rst2man in place of sphinx to build the
documentation has been removed.

### Improved notmuch-search-terms.7

The man page `notmuch-search-terms(7)` has been extended, merging
some material from the relicensed wiki.

Contrib
-------

`notmuch-deliver` is removed. As far as we know, all functionality
previously provided by `notmuch-deliver` should now be provided by
`notmuch insert`, provided by the main notmuch binary.

nmbug-status
------------

`nmbug-status` now only matches local branches when reading
`status-config.json` from the `config` branch of the `NMBGIT`
repository.  To help new users running `nmbug-status`, `nmbug clone`
now creates a local `config` branch tracking `origin/config`.  Folks
who use `nmbug-status` with an in-Git config (i.e. you don't use the
`--config` option) who already have `NMBGIT` set up are encouraged to
run:

    git checkout config origin/config

in their `NMBGIT` repository (usually `~/.nmbug`).
