[[!meta date="2022-02-06"]]

Notmuch 0.35 (2022-02-06)
=========================

Library
-------

Implement the `date` and `lastmod` fields in the S-expression parser.

Ignore trailing `/` for pathnames in both query parsers.

Rename configuration option `built_with.sexpr_query` to
`built_with.sexp_queries`.

Do not assume a default mail root in split (e.g. XDG) configurations.

Fix some small memory leaks in `notmuch_database_open_with_config`.

CLI
---

Improve handling of leading/trailing punctation and space for
configuration lists.

Only ignore `.notmuch` at the top level in `notmuch new`.

Optionally show extra headers in `notmuch show`. See
`show.extra_headers` in notmuch-config(1).

Emacs
-----

Drop `C-TAB` binding in hello mode, document `backtab`.

Fix visual glitch in search mode by running `notmuch-search-hook`
lazily.

Don't add space to completion candidates, improves compatibility with
third party completion frameworks.

Make citation formating more robust against whitespace.

Use `--excludes=false` when generating the 'All tags' section.

Use cached copy of message body for `Fcc`, avoiding variant bodies for
signed and/or encrypted messages.

Add notmuch-logo.svg and use it in notmuch-hello view, replacing
the .png version.

Make header line in show buffers optional.

Add customizable names for search buffers.

Build
-----

Fix out-of-tree build for `python-cffi` bindings.

Rearrange position of {C,CXX,CPP,LD}FLAGS, prevent some clashes with
installed version of notmuch.

Ignore more configure options.

Test Suite
----------

Replace some uses of `gdb` in the test suite with `LD_PRELOAD` based
shims.

Use `--with-colons` for gpgsm, fix compatibility with newer gnupg.

Python bindings
---------------

Add `matched` property to message objects.

Users are reminded that the old python bindings in bindings/python are
deprecated; this will probably be the last major release that ships
them.

Completion
----------

Use `database.mail_root` for path completion in bash/zsh.
